<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](http://doctoc.herokuapp.com/)*

- [Legends](#legends)
- [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [About Legends](#about-legends)
    - [The World of Legends](#the-world-of-legends)
- [Character Generation](#character-generation)
  - [Quick Character Creation](#quick-character-creation)
    - [Attributes](#attributes)
  - [](#)
    - [Choosing Initial Powers and Abilities](#choosing-initial-powers-and-abilities)
      - [List of Powers](#list-of-powers)
      - [List of Subpowers](#list-of-subpowers)
  - [](#-1)
    - [Skills](#skills)
  - [](#-2)
    - [Attributes Details](#attributes-details)
      - [Basic Attributes](#basic-attributes)
  - [Legendary Power Details](#legendary-power-details)
    - [Ability Enhancement](#ability-enhancement)
    - [Action Man](#action-man)
    - [The Attuned](#the-attuned)
    - [Dark Pact](#dark-pact)
    - [Divine Power](#divine-power)
    - [Regeneration/Shapeshift](#regenerationshapeshift)
    - [Inventor](#inventor)
    - [Legendary](#legendary)
  - [SubPower Details](#subpower-details)
  - [Spells](#spells)
    - [Spell Mastery:](#spell-mastery)
    - [Fire Spells](#fire-spells)
    - [Water Spells](#water-spells)
    - [Air Spells](#air-spells)
    - [Spirit Spells](#spirit-spells)
    - [Earth Spells](#earth-spells)
    - [ALL Spells](#all-spells)
    - [Cross-Over Spells](#cross-over-spells)
  - [Skills Details](#skills-details)
- [Game Rules](#game-rules)
  - [Basics of The Victus Gaming System](#basics-of-the-victus-gaming-system)
    - [Experience Points](#experience-points)
      - [How Much XP Should Be Given](#how-much-xp-should-be-given)
      - [Spending XP](#spending-xp)
    - [Attributes, Powers, and Skills](#attributes-powers-and-skills)
      - [How to Make Power Checks](#how-to-make-power-checks)
      - [How to Make Skill Checks](#how-to-make-skill-checks)
- [18).](#18)
  - [Combat](#combat)
    - [Attacking](#attacking)
    - [DR Damage Resistance](#dr-damage-resistance)
    - [Effects of Damage](#effects-of-damage)
    - [Grapple Rules](#grapple-rules)
    - [Legend Points](#legend-points)
    - [Combat Movement](#combat-movement)
- [Money & Equipment](#money-&-equipment)
  - [Money](#money)
  - [Equipment](#equipment)
  - [Magic Items](#magic-items)
    - [Wands:](#wands)
- [Monsters](#monsters)
  - [Character sheet](#character-sheet)
- [Setting](#setting)
  - [Child Legend](#child-legend)
  - [Legends in Hell](#legends-in-hell)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->


#  Legends

A game of fame, fortune, and high adventure.

Copyright 2001 Mark Essel, Aakin N. Patel, Eli Sacks

#  Introduction

Your day began with a proud and joyous realization, you turned 17 today. You
woke up early, to go out on a simple hunting mission. It is customary for
those of your village to prove their worth to the village, to gain the respect
due to a MAN on this of all days. You knew your goal: kill a Tycorian
Greywalker. You remember trembling a little as you thought about it; Tycorians
are a vicious 7 feet tall flightless bird known for their vicious pecking
attack. You’ve seen the bodies of other hunters (weak hunters, you think) that
have died attempting to harvest them. There was a moment of pause before you
steadied your nerves, and moved on. If a proud and vibrant young warrior like
yourself couldn't defeat these massive beaked beasts, then who could? Later
that afternoon, you dragged the Tycorian carcass up the hill towards your
home. As you walked over the last rise and the brush thinned, you saw the
smoldering ruins of your village. Rage overcame you only to be replaced with
mystification. Who or what could destroy your home? Why? These thoughts raced
through your mind as you ran desperately to your house, and that moment will
forever be etched indelibly in your memory. You came to a halt at your
father’s and brother’s burnt corpses, strewn about in the garden in front of
the house. You shoulder aside the destroyed door, and step inside, only to
find your mother lying on the floor with her throat slit and dress torn. What
type of bastards would have done this? You vow to gain vengeance as you carve
a deep swath into your palm with your knife, sealing your oath with steel and
blood.

Later, after you give your family their proper burial, you search through the
house, looking for clues and supplies. Beneath the floorboards in your
parent’s room, you find your father’s old storage chest, burned slightly on
the outside. You open it and discover a mysterious tome. Pulling it out, you
sit on the floor, and flip the cover. As you begin reading, strange symbols
and a new knowledge are burned into your mind. You know Fire Magic.

Getting up, you finish gathering what supplies you can from here and other
houses in the village. Your quest is beginning, as you travel out with your
bow to wreak havoc on all those who stand against you, and to find your
family’s murderers. There’s a blood debt to be paid.

##  About Legends

Welcome to the world of Legends: A Victus Role-Playing Game.

In this version of the Victus Role Playing System, you play the part of
extraordinary heroes, champions or evil overlords in a high fantasy medieval
setting. For those familiar with other fantasy Roleplaying Games, Legends will
be a refreshing break into the world of high fantasy. The Legendary power
level of characters may frighten the potential game master at first, but after
some review and thought about the flow of the game it should become natural to
craft a wonderful game with the helpful feedback of the players. Legends is
best run in a group of 1-6 players to give each character enough attention and
time so that they may elevate the adventurous spirit of the tale spun by the
game master. While other fantasy roleplaying games may focus on strategic
miniature combat, or highly detailed critical hit tables and luck, Legends is
driven by the creativity of it's players and game master. The more imaginative
and extemporaneous Legend's player's strategies, plans and actions become, the
more entertaining the game is for all. The system is designed not only to
allow for improvised solutions, the game master is encouraged to reward this
behavior through granting Legend Points or bonus experience. This may require
a bit more improvisation on the part of the game master, and this skill will
take some practice to hone. Here are a few examples of non-linear fantasy
solutions:

  * Having trouble with a certain trap filled, monster strewn dungeon level, try flooding the entire dungeon by summoning a powerful water elemental to help reroute a local river into it's entrance.
  * Lost in the middle of a desert with little food or water? Perhaps you have an Alertness master in the party, how about making a Crack-Trip Alertness check to smell water droplets from an oasis over 5 miles away!
  * Falling down a dimensional pit that never ends after getting back handed by a Demon Lord? If you don't have a spell handy, perhaps you have gained Ability Enhancement:Avatar, Action Man:Bizzaro Speed, Attuned:Levitation, Dark Pact/Divine Power Hellish Form/Ascension, Regeneration/Shapeshift into a winged form, Inventor: Grapeller Launcher, Rocket boots, an A.C.E. up your sleeve, Legendary: Allegorical GM power, Lycanthrope: Winged form, Contingency Man: Grappling Hook and xbow, or perhaps a magic item.

Remember that as powerful as the characters become, they still should have
connections to normal high fantasy townsfolk, friends, and family that help
form the history of the fantasy personality. The background of each Legend is
just as if not more important than all the powers that character has. How
would your character react to different situations, has their response been
colored by a tragic or compassion filled history? Is your character a hopeless
romantic, a born comedian, or perhaps an ascetic monk?

###  The World of Legends

Pecks have overrun the surface of the many worlds. Vile, insidious, dark
skinned halfings with only one thing on their mind, torturing all other
creatures with their foul and ridiculous nesting habits.

#  Character Generation

##  Quick Character Creation

###  Attributes

Every character has 6 main attributes:

  * Strength (STR) \- The ability to push, pull, slice, dice, chop, and carry.
  * Agility (AGI) \- The ability to move, maneuver, and manipulate.
  * Durability (DUR) \- A character’s toughness and endurance.
  * Thought (THT) \- A character’s intelligence, learning ability, speed of thought, and ability to react.
  * Will (WIL) \- The ability to resist mental attacks, perform well under pressure, and general focus.
  * Presence (PRS) \- The ability to react well socially, and to manipulate others.

Attribute values are determined by one of two methods:

  * Distribute 42 points amongst the attributes, with a minimum of 1 and a maximum of 10 in each.
  * Roll 6 times, 2d6 for each attribute placed to taste (rolls of 11, 12 are lowered to a 10). Also add +6 floating points as desired. You may re-roll the entire set once, if so desired. The floating points added may not push a stat beyond 10.

Attributes can be advanced during the course of the game, using XP points.
(See Experience Points section at the end of this chapter).

###

###  Choosing Initial Powers and Abilities

Legends have 3 Legendary power points to spend at the beginning of the game,
unless the game master has chosen otherwise (1 for a lower powered legends
game, 5 for Uber powered characters). A power point can give you one legendary
ability, or 3 subpower points. Each subpower point can buy you either a
subpower or a spell area. Temporary Will Points may be used for certain
Legendary Powers and Sub-powers. Each power has it’s own pool of temporary
Will points that it draws from to limit uses per day. Modifiers to attributes,
skills, combat stats etc. are all bonuses unless otherwise stated (they ride
on top of the normal stat) and may go far beyond the normal maximum. Certain
rare tomes or places of powers (pools, shrines) can grant either specific sub-
powers or one sub-power of the player's choice.

####  List of Powers

  * Ability Enhancement
  * Action Man
  * The Attuned
  * Dark Pact
  * Divine Power
  * Regeneration/Shapeshift
  * Inventor
  * Legendary

####  List of Subpowers

  * Aquatic Affinity
  * Armored Caster
  * Blessed Healer
  * The Chef
  * Contingency Man
  * Educated
  * Evil Eye
  * Famous
  * Fujisawa*
  * Grit
  * Hat Handed
  * Hero
  * Immunity to Poison and Disease
  * Immunity to Curses
  * Improved Healing
  * Innate Pilot
  * License to Kill
  * Lycanthrope*
  * Magus: choose one element (Fire, Air, Water, Spirit, Earth)
  * Magus:Expert Caster, Heaven & Sky
  * Magus:Expert Caster, Land, Sea, & Spirit
  * The Mojo
  * Ninja
  * Photographic memory
  * Resistance to Arcane
  * Sharpened senses
  * Sustained
  * Telepath
  * Thick Skinned
  * Tinkerer
  * Underground Connection
  * Vampire*
  * Warlord
  * Wealth

* = Mutually exclusive sub-powers only one of these sub-powers may be obtained by any character

###

###  Skills

Characters have their THT times two in skill points to spend. They get 1 free
level in Literacy and Pilot Land.

Skills are listed in bold font, with their masteries following in parenthesis:

  * Literacy (Linguist)
  * Pilot Land/Ride Land Creature (Professional Driver,Stunt Driver, Defensive Manuvering)
  * Pilot Ship, Ride Air, Pilot Kraken (Wavejumper/Windrider, Storm Master,Defensive Manuvering)
  * Flight (Windrider, Defensive Manuvering)
  * Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal Movement)
  * Alertness (Panoramic Vision, Danger Sense)
  * Artistic Ability (Masterpiece)
  * Math (Absolute Direction Sense, Linear Algebra)
  * Bargaining (Hagglorious)
  * Alchemy (Demolitions, True Alchemy)
  * Bowyer/Fletcher (Bow Master)
  * Climbing (SpiderClimb)
  * Cooking (Food Coma)
  * Engineering (MasterCrafter, Pinnacle of Structural Design, Juggernaut, Dirigible Titanicus)
  * Find/Remove Trap/Lock Picking (Eagle Eye, Cat Burglar)
  * Gambling (Bluff)
  * Glassblowing (Artisan, Glass Sword)
  * Herb Lore (Medicine Man)
  * Leather Worker (Masterwork)
  * Lore (Sage)
  * Medical (Medico)
  * Melee (Lethal Targeting, Hurled Weapon, QuickDraw, Weapon Barrier, Reflexive Deflection, CounterAttack, Ambidexterity)
  * Metal Smithing (Masterwork)
  * Missile (Lethal Targeting, Quick Shot, Gun Kata, Point Defense, Ambidexterity, Blind Shooting, Disarm, Death Blossom)
  * Musical Instrument (Calm/Engross, Master Musician)
  * Pilfer (Stage Magician)
  * Rope Use, Lassoing, Hog Tying (Hard Rope)
  * Running (Speed of the Fury)
  * Shield Use (Shield Bash, Parry)
  * Stealth (BackStab)
  * Stonemason (BackStab)
  * Storytelling (Enthrall)
  * Swimming (Aquatikhan)
  * Trade Skills (Master)
  * Tactics (Aura of Command)
  * Siege Weapon Systems (Quick Shot, Point Defense)
  * Wood Working (Carver)

###

###  Attributes Details

Characters have 6 basic attributes in the Victus game system: Strength,
Agility, Durability, Thought, Will, and Presence. An average human has a score
of 4 in every attribute. The maximum a normal person can have in an attribute
is 10. Realistically, 99% of the population never reaches above a 8. Legends
can exceed these values, although they are limited by the bonus their powers
give above 10.

####  Basic Attributes

Strength (STR):

The physical ability to push, pull, slice, dice, chop, and carry. Strength
determines the base amount of damage done with a punch, or adds to the damage
done with a hand held melee weapon. Maximum lifting capacity (equivalent to
lifting over their head) is 2(Strength/2)*20. Standing jumps can be up to a
characters strength/2 in feet. Horizontal distance may be up to the characters
strength in feet. A running jump doubles these heights and distances.

^ Strength ^ Maximum Lifting (Dead Lift) (lbs) ^

1

28

2

40

3

57

4

80

5

113

6

160

7

226

8

320

9

453

10

640

11

905

12

1280

13

1810

14

2560

15

3620

16

5120

17

7241

18

10240

19

14482

20

20480

21

28963

22

40960

23

57926

24

81920

25

115852

26

163840

27

231705

28

327680

29

463410

30

655360

31

926819

32

1310720

33

1853638

34

2621440

35

3707276

36

5242880

37

7414552

38

10485760

39

14829104

40

20971520

Agility (AGI): Represents manual dexterity and maneuverability, as well as the
ability to avoid something. The number of actions you may take per round is
your character agility divided by 4 rounding down with a minimum of one action
per round.

Agility

Walking Speed

Jogging Speed

Sprinting Speed

1

.5 yrd/sec

1 yrds/sec

1.5yrds/sec

2

1 yrds/sec

2 yrds/sec

3 yrds/sec

3

1.5 yrds/sec

3 yrds/sec

4.5yrds/sec

4

2 yrds/sec

4 yrds/sec

6 yrds/sec

5

2.5 yrds/sec

5 yrds/sec

7.5yrds/sec

6

3 yrds/sec

6 yrds/sec

9 yrds/sec

7

3.5 yrds/sec

7 yrds/sec

10.5yrds/sec

8

4 yrds/sec

8 yrds/sec

12yrds/sec

9

4.5 yrds/sec

9 yrds/sec

13.5yrds/sec

10

5 yrds/sec

10 yrds/sec

15yrds/sec

11

5.5 yrds/sec

11 yrds/sec

16.5yrds/sec

12

6 yrds/sec

12 yrds/sec

18yrds/sec

13

6.5 yrds/sec

13 yrds/sec

19.5yrds/sec

14

7 yrds/sec

14 yrds/sec

21yrds/sec

15

7.5 yrds/sec

15 yrds/sec

22.5yrds/sec

16

8 yrds/sec

16 yrds/sec

24yrds/sec

17

8.5 yrds/sec

17 yrds/sec

25.5yrds/sec

18

9 yrds/sec

18 yrds/sec

27yrds/sec

19

9.5 yrds/sec

19 yrds/sec

28.5yrds/sec

20

10 yrds/sec

20 yrds/sec

30yrds/sec

This score is used in conjunction with skills to strike at an opponent or to
dodge out of the way of their blows. Agility is also the base jogging movement
of an individual in yards per round (so a normal human can jog 4 yards per
second, or a little over 8.4 miles per hour). Humans may walk at half this
rate (on average 2 yards per second or 4.2 miles per hour) and sprint at 1.5
times the jogging rate (13 miles per hour). Sprinting can only be done for 5 x
Durability in Seconds, jogging can be done for 5 X durability in minutes
(although the running skill can extend this time). The scale factor from
yards/sec to miles per hour is 2.1 (6 yards/sec is about 12.6 miles per hour).
Also Agility is used to determine the number of actions a character may take
in a round. The number of actions a character may take per round is equal to
their Agility/4 rounding down.

Durability (DUR): A characters overall toughness and endurance, and lets you
survive not managing to avoid someone with a lot of strength.This stat is used
to determine a character’s resistance to damage. The number of Hit points a
character begins with is equal to their durability. (The Grit sub-power can
increase hit points over this amount). Also, for every three points of
Durability (rounded down), the character gains a point of DR (0 skin DR for
DUR 1 to 2, +1 skin DR for DUR 3 to 5, +2 skin DR for DUR 6 to 8, etc). This
is cumulative with other armors.

Thought (THT): Intelligence, learning ability, analytical skills, speed of
thought, ability to react well to new situations. Memory is also represented
by this attribute, but only to a lesser extent. Thought is the attribute
associated with most skills, and also determines the starting number of skill
points (THT x 2) (Example: THT 4 gives you 8 starting skill points). It is
also used for base initiative (THT + + d20, tie's are decided by THT if still
tied they roll off d20 to determine who goes before the other).

Will (WIL): Will Power. Resisting mental attacks, performing well under
pressure. This stat is also necessary for difficult or drawn out tasks, and
also represents the character's perception and attention to detail.

Presence (PRS): Deals with all social situations. A high presence allows a
character to influence others around him/her. For social interactions, roll a
d20 + PRS + SKL vs. target # ( WIL + SKL + 11) (Where SKL represents the
appropriate social skill). Additional situational modifiers [neutral 0, target
angered +4 difficulty, target happy -4 difficulty, +skill bonus if
applicable]) may apply; these are up to the GM. There are times when this
attribute is inapplicable (when arguing with your mother, or in most action
sequences for instance, although intimidation or a demand to surrender may be
possible when used in unison with an impressive act).

##  Legendary Power Details

A power point can purchase access and the first Power Level for one Legendary
Ability. Temporary Will Points may be gained for certain Legendary Powers.
Each Power has it’s own pool of temporary Will points that it draws from. So
with a Will of 6 and both Attribute: Strength 4 and Divine Power:6 you could
Push your strength 3 times (2 temporary will points each) and use Eternal
Light 6 times.

###  Ability Enhancement

This is the bread and butter Legendary Power which enables them to far surpass
most normal creatures in a specific attribute. One of the character’s
attributes becomes greatly improved with this power. May be purchased for
different attributes. Related skills are generally skills that use that
attribute primarily (i.e. a related skill to Agility is Melee or Missile, a
related skill for Engineering is Thought, etc.). Adept may be taken for the
same skill twice.

  * Level 1: Gain +2 to the chosen attribute
  * Level 2: Adept: Gain +1 bonus skill level to any two related skills
  * Level 3: Gain +2 to the chosen attribute
  * Level 4: Push, you can now temporarily boost the chosen attribute but only for a limited time. At the cost of 1 temporarily will points you can add +2 to this attribute for 1 round as a free action.
  * Level 5: Gain +2 to the chosen attribute
  * Level 6: Adept: Gain +1 bonus skill level to any two related skills
  * Level 7: Gain +2 to the chosen attribute
  * Level 8: Uber Push, you can now temporarily boost the chosen attribute even further but only for a limited time. At the cost of 2 temporarily will points you can add +4 to this attribute for 1 round as a free action.
  * Level 9: Gain +2 to the chosen attribute
  * Level 10: Avatar, you have become the living representation of the ultimate ability of this attribute. You may now use this attribute to perform feats that bewilder the logical mind → limited only by what the player can imagine. To succeed at extreme strength feats, make a STR check (d20 + STR). Examples for Strength include squeezing coal into a large diamond (Difficulty 30), or throwing an opponent into orbit as feats of Strength (Difficulty 34). An agility example could be to dodge acid molecules as you swim deep beneath the surface in an acid pool (Difficulty 34). The difficulty ranges from Tough (22) to Crack Trip (34) depending on what the avatar wishes to use this attribute for. The cost is 2 temporary will points.

###  Action Man

The character gains the action man skill.

  * Level 1: Base power, +1 action.
  * Level 2: +4 to initiative.
  * Level 3: The character is so fast they leave a ghost trail as they move. This ability grants them a +2 bonus to Deflection (Parry/Evade).
  * Level 4: +1 additional action
  * Level 5: The character can accelerate themselves so fast that they can make short jumps and apparently teleport. 1/day per level they may phase jump 100ft per action man level even through solid objects without any chance of failure.
  * Level 6: Team attack of One! The Action Man can effectively gang up on opponents by being in more than one place at the same time. This gives the Action Man a special maneuver which allows them to attack an area roughly a 20foot radius with a single melee attack.
  * Level 7: +1 additional action
  * Level 8: The character's speed is insane, increase their base movement by their levels in Action Man, in addition they can run on water.
  * Level 9: Even the character's ghost trail is insanely fast. This ability grants them a +2 more bonus to Deflection (Parry/Evade).
  * Level 10: +1 additional action. Bizzaro Speed: you can do feats of speed that boggle the imagination and can cause odd black mucous to hemorrhage forth from onlookers skulls. At the cost of 2 temporary will points and a Crack Trip difficulty check of Action Man Power Level + Will, you can do almost anything you can imagine as you long as you explain it through a use of bizarre speed.

###  The Attuned

You are one with the world. You know the flows of its forces and the path of
destiny. You have seen beyond the mundane attachments of worldly pleasure and
pain, you have become enlightened.

  * Level 1: Ability to detect wrongness in the world around you. Detect evil at will. Also, you gain +2 to initiative, Hit, and Deflection against opponents, as you can sense their upcoming movements. In addition you may improve harvests, even for poor terrain like desert or infertile soil. All harvests made on attunely blessed land happens in half the time for double the yield, or in the case of severe terrain allows normal harvesting for the next 6 months.
  * Level 2: When you need it, creatures from the surrounding wilderness will show up to aid you. Creatures will arrive in 1 round and activating this power requires one temporary will point. A monster up to half your Attunement Level (rounded down) can be summoned. Also, you gain the ability to communicate with animals that do not otherwise have a language of their own.
  * Level 3: You can transfer your essence into the body of another willing creature. Your original body is melded into the host. If the host dies the Attuned is expelled, violently. This process causes intense pain. The effect is the loss of half of the characters remaining hit points. The character can bring up to half of his maximum carrying capacity of items with him, although he cannot leave them behind.
  * Level 4: Nature walk, you can travel from one place to another bringing others with you (a number of extra individuals less than or equal to your Attunement level). The only limitation is that you must travel to a similar terrain type (light woods to light woods, tall grass to tall grass, desert to desert etc.). You must know of the other terrain type and if your knowledge is incorrect it fails (useful for mapping, “there’s no desert there!”. Nature walks can be done at the cost of one temporary will point.
  * Level 5: Levitation, through concentration you may now make your body lighter than air effectively floating. This power is great for avoiding pit traps as you can instantly reduce your falling rate to zero. You may also levitate one target per Attuned level (or one object) who's target weight is no greater than 200lbs per Attuned level. Maximum movement rate is Attuned Power level in yards/sec upward or downward. This power can enable ultra length jumps by lowered weight to near zero, the attuned master can leap up to Attuned level * 20 yards per action.
  * Level 6: Feel no pain, you have overcome the worldly feeling of injury. Gain +2 skin DR to physical attacks, and +2 Mind DR which reflects your body and minds immunity to damage.
  * Level 7: You have achieved a higher form of attunement gaining +2 more initiative, Hit, and Deflection against opponents, as you can sense their upcoming movements even more precisely. You can also use this attunement to activate a postcognition power on objects, locations or creatures to get a birds eye view (up to 50yard radius about the object) of what occured in a location up to 1 day earlier per Attunement Power Level.
  * Level 8: Primal form. You actually become an elemental at will gaining the stats (of the elemental unless yours are better), all powers (immunity and magical talent), but otherwise retain your skills and other powers. The elemental size you can become is your Attuned level/2 round down.
  * Level 9: Force of the Mind, now you can use your Attuned Power level + Will as form of ranged telekinetic strength. The reach of your mind power is up to 100yards + 20yards per Attuned Level. Weapons can be wielded, objects manipulated, etc. In addition the Attuned may concentrate a focused blast at will to strike opponents for effective strength in damage possibly knocking back a target.
  * Level 10: Wrath of the Forest: You gain an oaken staff from the great Beyond! Also referred in legend as the Long Arm of the Yg. The staff acts as a Magical Weapon +5 (to hit and base damage bonus), in addition it is always strikes as if the Lightning Blade Spell cast at 10th level which adds an additional 7 damage to melee attacks (+5 to hit, Str + 12(magic) + 2(staff) base damage total). Finally using the staff you may focus beam like blasts of electricity at will as a missile attack (adding +5 for the Magical to hit bonus) with a base damage of 2d6 + 10 + 2/level. If the staff is ever removed or destroyed you are so attuned to it you may summon it back and fix it at will. Any creatures struck by this staff or blast instantly sprouts a small annoying flower from their forehead for each time hit. The flower may be removed normally.

###  Dark Pact

The character has made a bargain (or multiple bargains) with some greater
force of evil (Hell Lords, Dread Mages, Dark Gods) and has been infused with
the spark of infernal power. As part of the deal the character is sworn to
perform tasks assigned by the master in exchange for the Dark Pact power it
receives. Those who break these promises are usually sought out by followers
of the higher power to pay for their crimes. The power may not be revoked.

  * Level 1: Darkvision - unlimited range, Fury: The character may surround themselves in a fiery red aura. Any melee attacks made by the character are +2 to damage while the aura is active. In addition the character is granted a + 2 Skin DR and +2 Mental DR from the fiery aura. The aura can be used 1/day per temporary will point.
  * Level 2: **Summon Demonling:** 1 per day per temporary will point the character may summon a demonling to do his bidding. The Demonling remains for 1 hour per Dark Pact level at which time it vanishes in a whirling cloud of brimstone and smoke. At Dark Pact level 6 this power becomes **Gate to Hell:** 1d6 powerful demons appear through a hellish tear in the fabric of space. The tear leads to a dimension of pure evil or chaos. The demons have stats/skills = to the demonlings +6, have grit 3, and are completely at the command of the summoner. Gate to Hell can be activated for 2 temporary will points.
  * Level 3: Hell Fire: The character can launch a swirling vortex of hellfire from his body (hands, mouth, eyes, character chooses for each blast). The Hellfire is directed with missile skill with a +2 bonus to hit. The damage is 10 + (1/Dark Pact Level) against one target. Hellfire may be used at will.
  * Level 4: Shadow walk: The character gains +2 bonus levels to Stealth skill as he can be absorbed into shadows. In addition the character can walk the dimension of shadow and travel up to 100 miles to another shadow. This can be done at the cost of 1 temporary will point.
  * Level 5: Hellish Form: The character has raised through the ranks of demons to become a powerful force of evil. Permanently gain +2 Str, +3 Durability. In addition they can transform 1/day into a demonic form (detailed by the character) which allows Winged Flight at double your normal movement rates (walking/jogging/sprinting). The duration of Hellish Form is 1 hour per Dark Pact level.
  * Level 6: Hell Aura of Blood:You may radiate an aura of blood by focusing your will. The Aura of blood damages all chosen individuals within 10 yards for 2d6 damage, bypassing all defenses except resistance to magic/supernatural. This ability costs 2 temporary will points per activiation. 
  * Level 7: Rules Lawyering: You have discovered how to free yourself from the pact, much like a graduating PhD student. Your new found liberation has a profound impact on your mind and outlook, gain +4 bonus willpower.
  * Level 8: Echo of Evil Eye, a contagious dark laughter that effects one target. Make a Presence+d20 vs Target Will+11 to make target surrender and lay prone often times releasing their bowels for (1+number of successes) actions. In addition you may also burrow, you are able to tunnel through earth and stone at your normal movement rate.
  * Level 9: Greater Hell Form, Permanently gain an additional +2 Str, +3 Durability. In addition they can transform 1/day into an even more sinister looking demonic form (detailed by the character) which allows Sustained, Swim & Winged Flight at double your normal movement rates (walking/jogging/sprinting). The duration of Greater Hell Form is 1 hour per Dark Pact level.
  * Level 10: Demigodhood. Now your character sprouts up focused worshippers all through the lands and has garnered true power over creation and destruction. Through a force of will you can mold reality (modifying and conjuring inanimate objects but not wishing folks dead). Minor and superficial changes require a Tough (22) Will + Dark Pact check. More incredible changes like summoning an entire castle from the earth require a Crack Trip (34) Will + Dark Pact Check. One attempt per 2 temporary will points per day may be made to modify reality. Permanent constructs cost 400 AP worth of materials. The maximum magic item bonus for constructed items is +3.

###  Divine Power

The character has made a bargain ( or multiple bargains) with some greater
force of good { Angels, Light Gods, ArchMages } and has been infused with
power. As part of the deal the character vows to perform tasks assigned by the
master. Those who break these vows are usually sought out by followers of the
higher power to pay for their crimes. You may start with Dark Pact and Divine
Power and many of the abilities are cumulative.

  * Level 1: Summon Light - at will a glowing ball of light appears and brightens an area up to 60ft radius, Holy Aura: The character may surround themselves in a bright light aura. Any melee attacks made by the character are +2 to damage while the aura is active. In addition the character is granted a +2 Skin DR and +2 Mental DR from the light aura . The aura can be used once per day per temporary will point.
  * Level 2: Summon Paladin: once per day per temporary will point the character may summon a Paladin. The Paladin remains for 1 hour per Divine Power level at which time it fades in a soft glow from above. At level 6 the divine power can call d6 Holy Avengers, which are Paladins with +6 to attributes, and grit 3, which cost 2 temporarily will points per summoning.
  * Level 3: Holy Light: The character can launch a swirling a focused blast of light from his body ( hands, mouth, eyes, character chooses). The Holy Light is directed with missile skill with a +2 bonus to hit. The damage is 10 + (1/Divine Power Level) against one target. Purging Light may be used at will.
  * Level 4: Light form: This wonderous ability grants those with Divine Power the ability to transform into a magnificent light source. In this form they may travel at incredible speeds, effectively teleporting from one point to another. This transformation only lasts a few moments though and grants no special defenses. The divine servant may take light form once per day per temporary will point expended, transporting themselves up to 100 miles. Others can sense this latent power and naturally trust or even fear (if evil) this character giving the character a +2 to Presence.
  * Level 5: Ascension: The character has risen through the ranks of angels to become a powerful force of good. Permanently gain +2 Str, +3 Durability. In addition they can transform 1/day into a angelic form (detailed by the character) which allows Winged Flight at double their normal movement rates (walking/jogging/sprinting). The duration of this form is a maximum of one hour per Divine Power level.
  * Level 6: Eternal Light: You may radiate an aura of healing by focusing your will. The Healing Aura heals all chosen individuals within 2yards, 6+1/lvl once per day per temporary will point.
  * Level 7: The higher power set's you free from all obligation. Your new found liberation has a profound impact on your mind and outlook, gain +4 bonus willpower.
  * Level 8: Greater Eternal Light: Resurrect target cost is 4 temporary will points, Fully heal one target cost is 2 temporary will points.
  * Level 9: Arch Ascension, Permanently gain +2 Str, +3 Durability. In addition they can transform 1/day into a Arch Angelic form (detailed by the character) which allows Swimming and Winged Flight at double their normal movement rates (walking/jogging/sprinting). The duration of this form is a maximum of one hour per Divine Power level.
  * Level 10: Demigodhood. Now your character sprouts up focused worshippers all through the lands and has garnered true power over creation and destruction. Through a force of will you can mold reality (modifying and conjuring inanimate objects but not wishing folks dead). Minor and superficial changes require a Tough (22) Will + Divine Power check. More incredible changes like summoning an entire castle from the earth require a Crack Trip (34) Will + Divine Power Check. One attempt per 2 temporary will points per day may be made to modify reality. Permanent constructs cost 400 AP worth of materials. The maximum magic item bonus for constructed items is +3.

###  Regeneration/Shapeshift

The character gains the Regeneration/Shapeshift Legendary Power. As the
characters knowledge of their self healing increases they gain new abilities.
Regeneration legends naturally heal a specified number of hit points per
round. In addition they may focus their shapeshifting and heal an additional
amount equal to their base, per action spent concentrating on healing.

  * Level 1: Base power, regenerate 4 hit points per round. The character can survive up to double their negative durability.
  * Level 2: Minor Shapechange, The character can make small adjustments to his physical appearance, different face, claws (strength +2 damage), or even breath underwater. Gain +2 DR from skin and rearranged organs, in addition you may transform into and gain all special attacks, movement and respiration (but not other miscellaneous magical abilities) from any level 1-2 monster (using the better of the monster physical attributes or your own - STR,AGI,DUR). To determine number of actions use the AGI selected, and add any modifiers given by powers/spells. When calculating DR you may use the better of yours or the creatures:
  * Attribute based DR
  * Skin DR
  * Armor DR
  * Level 3: regenerate 8 hit points per round independent of form
  * Level 4: Gains and additional +2 DR from skin and rearranged organs. You may also heal others creatures touched at the rate of your regeneration in hit points per round.
  * Level 5: Shapechange, the characters entire form can be changed, wings and size change (to a size appropriate for the creature mimicked). Each activation of shapeshift costs 1 temporary will point and lasts until you choose to transform back. In addition you may now mimic any creature of levels 1-3.
  * Level 6: regenerate 5 hit points per round. Gains +1 DR from skin and rearranged organs.
  * Level 7: you may heal a single other creature within 30 feet at the rate of your regeneration in hit points per round. This is done automatically once per round as a free action.
  * Level 8: Major Shape Change, Gains +2 DR from skin and rearranged organs in any form. In addition you may now mimic any creature of levels 1-4.
  * Level 9: regenerate 12 hit points per round.
  * Level 10: Gains +2 DR from skin and rearranged organs (that's +10 skin DR to physical attacks from this power). Exalted Shapechange, your form can fluidly shift into almost anything desired. Much like Shapechange except now you may choose any lvl 1-5 monster. Finally you cannot be destroyed unless after being damaged pass negative the point of normal death, your body is beheaded, burned, and then the ashes are spread. Anything less and your character will begin reforming from the ashes.

###  Inventor

The hero gains the Inventor skill. He is a genius scientist capable of
engineering feats that would amaze the greatest of simpletons. All
construction times are listed as base times, Inventor abilities may reduce
this base construction time. Inventors with no Engineering skill levels will
find it difficult to construct anything.

  * Level 1: You gain the ability to construct and control a single metal/wood/stone golem from 8-10 feet tall and weighs 1000 pounds and it's design/form is completely up to the player (humanoid, spider-bot, rhino, but they begin restricted to land movement). You begin the game with one golem and may repair it at no cost. Constructing a brand new golem costs 100 AP. Difficulty = 16 + level of inventor. Base Construction time: 8 weeks. A failed check requires an additional 4 weeks and 50 AP to try again. 

The golems stats may be increased as your Inventor skill progresses and you
tweak it's materials and design.

The Golem never tires nor does it need sleep or fuel. Deactivated Golems cease
to function, destroyed golems cannot be repaired in the field and require
reconstruction back in a lab/workshop environment. Golems are deactivated at
-1 HP and destroyed when damage exceeds negative Durability.

Inventors gain the contingency man subpower for free at level 1

Golem Stats

Str, Durability

8 + Inventor Level

Agility

6 + Inventory Level

Thought & Skills: Melee, Missile, Acrobatics

4+Inventor Level

Will

0 (not affected by mind magic)

Presence

1

Hit Points

(1+Inventors Level/2 (round up)) * Golem Durability

DR

Armor DR: 2 + 1 per 2 Engineering Skill Levels + Skin DR: (DUR/3 rnd down) +
Immune to mental attacks

  * Level 2: **Jury-Rig** you can make almost instant repairs with little or no difficulty, roll a thought + engineering + d20 check vs. Difficulty 11, which repairs a base of d6 points of damage. For ever success the repair roll exceeds 11 add one to the amount of damage repaired. The repair times takes one round. 

**Interpose**: The golem may now interpose itself between any attacks made on the inventor when within 10 yards of the golem. Attacks targeting the inventor are instead applied to the golem. It even protects the inventor from area of effect attacks

  * Level 3: +2 to the inventor's agility and missile skill as they experiment heavily with their personal artillery. 

**Personal Artillery**: You can now create one of the following personal weapons: blunderbuss, pistol, automatic crossbow, spring action harpoon, heli-blade, or high bounce shoes (the most dangerous “Personal” artillery) useable only by the inventor, and/or his golem. Base Construction time: 4 weeks. Failed attempts require an additional base time of 2 weeks and half the starting price. Roll thought + engineering + d20 check vs Difficulty: 16+Inventor Level. Cost: 10 AP. The item has a base damage of Engineering Skill Level + 4(at time of creation). Base range is 300 yards. The weapons may be used in melee as well using melee skill if so desired ( Sword Gun, Pistol ). In addition you have modified your Golem(s) so that it is capable of having a swivel mounted turret to fire or attack with your Personal Artillery. Personal Artillery can be fired by either the Inventor or the Golem, so it behooves the inventor to create at least 2 personal artillery. Ammunition is unlimited.

  * Level 4: 

+2 Engineering skill

Air Ship: you can construct an air ship. It's size and speed is dependent on
your level. The Air Ship's vehicle agility limits the maximum evade and
ramming potential (max evade 11+vehicle agility, max bonus to ramming attack
d20+vehicle agility) although actual values depend on the pilot. The ship has
a base speed (max speed is base x3) of the inventors thought + Engineering
skill Level in yards per second (which makes it much faster than anything
created with Engineering skill alone). The carrying capacity is determined by
the effective strength of the craft. The Air Ship may travel at this cruising
speed (base) for up to 7 days before requiring refueling or may travel up to
triple this speed for about a day. Favorable winds can even allow no or very
low power consumption. Finally mystic power sources can be installed which
allow virtually unlimited travel (may require resting the engine after
prolonged sprinting x3 speed). The cost for the airship is 250 adamantium. The
difficulty of constructing the ship is 20 + level of the inventor. Base
Construction time: 8 weeks. A failed check requires an additional 4 weeks and
10 AP per inventor level to try again.

Airship Stats

Maximum Length

Inventors Skill*10 feet long

Maximum Height & Width

Inventors Skill*5 feet long (masts can reach max length)

Max Vehicle Agility

Engineering Skill Level

Base Speed

Thought + Engineering Skill Level yards/sec, max speed is 3 times this

Effective Strength

Engineering Skill Level + 7 (carrying capacity determined by max lift)

DR

Engineering Skill Level + 4

HP

10 * Engineering Skill Level

  * Level 5: 

You've developed the intricate plans to the handy dandy Grapeller Launcher and
the Mysterio Shrink Ray that the inventor or his golem may wield. The
Grapeller Launcher is a small hand held or forearm guard device is a versatile
design. It is used to fire a grappling arrow/hook up to 300 feet and reel the
holder of the item or the target struck in at 20yards/sec. It can also be used
for swinging. The Strength of the grappler gun is 2*Inventor Level, and the
base construction time is 1 week, difficulty 14+Inventor Level, cost is 10AP.
Although the Grapeller Launcher isn't designed for direct attacks, if it hits
a target (use missile skill) it's base damage is its strength. You can fashion
a pair to be attached to your Golem as well.

The Mysterio Shrink Ray can shrink a target down to 25% of it's normal size.
This reduces Strength of the target by 4. To affect an unwilling target a
missile roll to hit must succeed. It doesn't stack (can't repeatedly shrink
the same target). The shrink ray duration is 1 hr/level on willing target
which takes 1 minute apply, and if used in combat its single action activated
duration is 1 round + 1 round / success.

  * Level 6: +2 to the inventor's agility and missile skill as they further hone their expertise, +2 Engineering skill
  * Level 7: Their resistance to lab explosions has toughened both the Inventor's hide and will. They gain +3 Durability, +2 skin DR, and +3 Will.
  * Level 8: Improved Personal Artillery: much like Personal Artillery this ability is an upgrade to the existing weapon that increases its damage to Engineering Skill Level + Inventor Level. The new range is 400 yards. In addition you've developed rocket boots for your Golem which enable it to fly at a base speed of Engineering Skill Level in yards/sec (triple this speed max). This rockets are fueled by the Golem's internal power source and the total duration for travelling base speed is one hour. This time is the equivalent of 10 minutes of X3 (sprinting) speed. The rocket boots may only be used for one hour total in any 24 hour period.
  * Level 9: Engineering Judgement→ the inventor can do truly ridiculous things with his knowledge of engineering. At the cost of 2 temporary will points a bonus of up to the inventor level can be given to any roll the inventor is making or defending against (i.e. to hit rolls, skill checks, evade, ability checks, you name it). The bonuses apply for one combat round worth of actions and are declared on the inventor's initiative.
  * Level 10: A.C.E. up your sleeve, this genius ability is the ultimate contingency plan based on an extraordinarily advanced gadget. When all else seems to be failing you can always rely on the A.C.E. It stands for Advanced Contingency Engineering. The Inventor is allowed to spend a single action devising a plan using an A.C.E. gadget that can have amazing in game effects. The success of the A.C.E. gagdet is dependent on the skill check made when employing the device, d20 + Engineering + THT. Examples of what an A.C.E. is capable of include inflating out to an incredibly durable cage = Difficulty 14; to instantaneously manifesting as an advanced construction plant that forms a town or large castle = Difficulty 34. Bonuses yielded by an A.C.E. for any permanent effects are +3, and temporary bonuses should be no higher than your Inventor level. Perhaps you've always wanted to be a proud owner of a pair of Masterwork Elite Engineering Goggles, +3 to Will. Generally if an A.C.E. creates an item that has a permanent modifier the difficulty is Crack Trip and bonuses are not self cumulative (can't keep stacking A.C.E. effects) nor are they cumulative with magical bonuses (can't have +3 to a stat from an A.C.E. and another +5 from magic items). The only real limit of an A.C.E. is the creative ability of the inventor. The difficulty to construct an A.C.E. is 34, and it's cost is 10 AP, but to create permanent or other crack trip difficulty effects (during deployment) requires an additional 400 AP. The base construction time is 1 day. 

###  Legendary

You are slated to be the one of the greatest of the Legends. Wherever you go,
people know and recognize you. You do great things; people retell them even
greater. Your mark on the world is assured.

  * Level 1: You are famous (or infamous). People recognize, help, and fear you. Role-play wise, things are a little easier for you. Whether or not you are recognized, gain a +4 to your Presence attribute.
  * Level 2: Overawe. Once per encounter you can attempt to force your opponents to yield before your might. Make a roll of d20+Presence once per combat or encounter, if greater than or equal to the highest will + 11 of the opposing group they beg for quarter, otherwise they rally about those who resisted and ignore the attempt. Check it out, you could theoretically force an opposing army to give in to your demands - when standing by yourself with an obvious mortal wound taken earlier ( they probably won't join you; they could though; but they definitely won't try to attack you). If cornered cowered enemies will defend themselves. This is great in a doomed battle. You can't always make creatures do exactly what you want (gm's discretion) but you can force them to stop fighting, and to flee.
  * Level 3: You gain a huge following/horde/city/fortress located at your choice. In addition you become more hardy and resilient overall, gain +2 WIL and DUR.
  * Level 4: Every time the GM gives out Legend points you get 2 Legend points instead of one, or a bonus of one.
  * Level 5: Small groups/temples sprout up around the world in your name. Gain free healing in any city as well as room and board. Information, the list goes on… Even in enemy controlled cities secret cults worship your character. Your spy network knows no bounds.
  * Level 6: Your Legendary aura manifests in an unshakeable confidence that exudes from your very being, gain +2 bonus skill levels to any skill.
  * Level 7: Legendary Endurance: Each Legend Point you spend is more potent and greater than that of even other Legends. Any bonuses normally gained are gained for twice as long.
  * Level 8: Every time the GM gives out Legend points you get 3 Legend points instead of one, or bonus of 2 Legend points.
  * Level 9: Legendary Might: Each Legend Point you spend is further improved and now gains +50% of the bonuses listed normally (round up). In addition you become more hardy and resilient overall, gain +3 WIL and DUR.
  * Level 10 You have become the living embodiment of Legend! Once per game session on a successful Crack Trip difficulty check of Legend Power + Will + d20, you may take over the roll of GM and allegorically describe how an encounter turns out, judged by your peers and GM this is without doubt the most potent of all the powers in the Victus Roleplaying Games. Used wisely it can turn an entire party defeat into glorious escape, survival and retribution. Judicious usage of this power is required by both experienced players and GMs.

##  SubPower Details

Starting Legends may purchase sub-powers in addition to their primary power.
Temporary Will Points may be gained for certain Sub-Powers, each sub-power has
it’s own pool of temporary Will points that it draws from. So with a Will of 6
you may use Fujisawa 3 times per day (6 temporary will points) and Evil Eye 6
times.

  * Aquatic Affinity: This sub-power yields +4 bonus levels (these levels ride on top of the purchased levels) to the swimming skill, the ability to breathe underwater and innate friendliness with undersea life. You receive no penalties when in a liquid environment (normally underwater gives -4 to hit and base damage).
  * Armored Caster: Normally spell casters cannot wear any armor at all, with this sub-power you may cast the most intricate of spells in the heaviest plate mail armor without restriction.
  * Blessed Healer: Can heal d6+1 hit points per temporary will point. 5 temporary will points can curing disease, blindness, and/or limb regeneration.
  * The Chef: You were trained at the HL Culinary Institute and Martial Arts School. Get +2 bonus level to melee, acrobatics and the cooking skill (these levels ride on top of the purchased levels).
  * Contingency Man: Player gets to have whatever random (even cheapo magic) items they want (up to 5 items a week worth 5GP each, or 1 item worth 25GP). Beginning characters start off with up to 10AP worth of items. This sub-power can originate from magical conjuration, dimensional folding through psionic will or perhaps a intense knack for being well equipped with exactly what is needed at the right moment.
  * Educated: Character starts off with +8 extra starting skills. If they wish, they can have a formal education in their background, or be well trained (elite soldiers, master diplomat, etc). Also, beginning characters can raise one skill to level 8.
  * Evil Eye: Presence+d20 vs Will+11 to make target surrender and lay prone often times releasing their bowels for (1+number of successes) actions. In addition can be used as a direct physical missile assault, with base damage equal to Presence+6. Use 1/day per will point.
  * Famous: Like a movie star or hero. People know you, makes it easier to get things done or buy things cheap. You always can get into exclusive clubs or even get out of tickets or everyday hastles. The downside is that sometimes you attract more attention than you'd like.
  * Fujisawa: Addicted to smoking & drinking. Get +2 to str, agility (can go above your normal maximum) if you quit smoking or drinking for 10 minutes, which costs 2 temporary will points and takes affect immediately. You may smoke an entire cigarette in one inhaling. The cost is 6 temporary will points to refrain from both substances simultaneously for 10 minutes. Gain +4 str, agility (can go above your normal maximum), note that at least a 6 will is required to stop using both substances and in this case (6 will) the character would require a day of normal additiction before consciously refraining from either substance again. If the character is forceably removed from one or both substances the appropriate level of power will manifest (either +2 or +4 to STR & AGI) and during this time the character will complain about missing one or both of the addicted substances and actively seek them at the soonest possible opportunity. The game master may allow you to substitute other addictions instead of drinking or smoking. Fujisawa is mutually exclusive with Vampire and Lycanthrope (only one of these three may be chosen).
  * Grit: (Durability) this grants a character the Grit Power (raised with xp as a power 2 X next level in xp to raise). This power is vital for any Legend who wishes to engage in dangerous activities such as melee combat, absorbing axes to the face, or leaping off of tall cliffs. This power gives a character DurabilityXGrit level in extra hit points ( i.e. a character with level 1 grit has double his durability in HP).
  * wtf why isn't grit mastery working
  * Grit Mastery at lvl 5: Not Dead Yet: Characters strong in Grit become ridiculously tough, refusing to feel wounds that would drop other people. Characters with this specialty do not pass into unconsciousness when going below 0 hit points; they may stand and fight until they die. Also, they gain the unique ability to strangle opponents with their own dangling innards. NOTE: You have a skill penalty equivalent to your negative hit points.
  * Hat Handed: An additional 1 action per round is gained with the hat hand ( small hand can use only small weapons - knives, hand crossbows or other small weapons/wands, the strength of the hand is your normal strength - 4, minimum of 1 ). The hand is sensitive to daylight→ and should be covered by a hat or turban (if exposed to daylight the damage caused is 1 hit point/hour. If the hat hand suffers 8 or more hit points from this effect, the hat handed is temporarily maimed and requires special healing (either magical, blessed healing, special hospital, etc.) before it may be used again. Two bonus skill levels are given to the following scientific skills: Engineering.
  * Hero: Your character is a local hero wherever he travels and is well loved respected by all he or she sees. Much like the lawful side of underground connections, you can call in a automatic favor once per game of the local authorities or government.
  * Immunity to Poison and Disease: You are immune to poisons and diseases of all sorts.
  * Immunity to Curses: Evil Hag Witch hucking curses all over town and transforming folks into frogs? No prob, just give her five across the eyes as the curse washes off of you. Having problems with a really cool magic item that is cursed, not in your hands. These include cursed items and weapons, lycanthropy, vampirism, evil eyes and hexes (i.e. Son-Of-Bitch). Also, you are more resistant to certain magical effects; gain a +4 to magical tests against your will (i.e. If a wizard is trying to cast Viscosity on you, and you have a Will of 6, the difficulty number is 21 instead of 17).
  * Improved Healing: You heal incredibly fast, compared to normal people; gain back 2 HP an hour (4 if resting). This power won't regenerate lost limbs, but can bring you back from the brink of death.
  * Innate Pilot: You are a master of piloting all forms of vehicular transports. Innate Pilots get a +4 bonus skill levels to all pilot-related skills (including riding creatures). This bonus rides on top of the normal skill level. This means that an innate pilot is NEVER unskilled at piloting, even if he doesn't buy the appropriate skill.
  * License to Kill: You are part of an organization that allows you to kill for their purposes. This organization has great pull with local authorities or may be the local authority. This right can be revoked by the organization. Examples may be a King's Writ or Sheriff/Judge authority.
  * Lycanthrope: You have a darker creature side. On each full moon you automatically transform into a hybrid humanoid form of whatever creature you choose for this Gift. At other times when you are damaged and fail a difficulty 20 will check you reflexively shapeshift. You may willingly shapeshift at any time into the hybrid form or the full creature form. Gain +2 to one attribute (and it's maximum) of your choice. Additionaly in hybrid or creature form gain an ability related to the creature you choose, Dragons/Owls would gain flight at double base movement speed, Cheetahs may gain a land based speed boost that allows them to double their sprinting speed, +2 Alertness Skill would also be an acceptable ability to choose. You regenerate one hit point of damage per round (unless silver damage) and cannot be killed unless by silver. Unfortunately silver weapons inflict double damage to you (when damage is calculated double any damage that would normally get past damage resistance). When in creature or hybrid form you character gains instinctual personality traits, perhaps hunting for food if hungry, etc. Lycanthrope is mutually exclusive with Fujisawa and Vampire (only one of these three may be chosen).
  * Magus: choose and gain one elemental magic area at level 1 (Fire, Air, Water, Spirit, Earth)
  * Magus Expert Caster, Heaven & Sky: add +2 bonus skill levels to your Fire and Air magic skills (if learned through Magus or Books of Knowledge). In addition gain +2 starting skill points which are applied to the missile skill (it's starting maximum is 8 with skill points, so while you can get extra skill points from this and educated they don't raise the starting skill max to 10).
  * Magus Expert Caster, Land, Sea, & Spirit: add +2 bonus skill levels to your Earth, Water and Spirit magic skills (if learned through Magus or Books of Knowledge).
  * The Mojo: These characters tend to be well spoken or attractive or both. Characters get +4 Presence vs people of the opposite sex of the character.
  * Ninja: A master of stealth, acrobatics and scaling sheer surfaces. This character is talented at Stealth, Acrobatics and Climbing, adding +2 bonus skill levels to these skills.
  * Photographic memory: You dont EVER forget anything. Comes in handy for mapping dungeons and other miscellaneous things “What did those warning glyphs say again?”
  * Resistance to Arcane: You resist magical and supernatural spells and attacks (beams, blasts, elemental bolts). Attackers must overcome your resistance value by rolling their power level + d20 against difficulty 11 + your Will.
  * Sharpened senses: You are constantly aware of your surroundings. Get +2 bonus levels added to the alertness skill (rides on top of the purchased skill level and gain masteries sooner). Your sharpened vision grants +2 bonus level to the missile skill (rides on top of base skill). A major aspect of stealth is being where your opponents aren't observing, gain +2 bonus to stealth skill.
  * Sustained: You don’t need to breathe, eat, sleep, or drink. You also don't need to excrete or produce any waste if you don't eat or drink.
  * Telepath: You are sensitive to the minds of others. Once per day per will point, you get to make an opposed will check of d20+Will versus Targets Will +11 to successfully pick up information they may be concealing or their surface thoughts. For every success the character makes, additional knowledge may be gained. Gain +2 bonus skill levels to Bargaining checks (gain masteries sooner).
  * Thick Skinned: You were abused by pigmy alligators as a child, and as a result, get +2 to DR. This is cumulative all other DRs (natural durability, and armor).
  * Tinkerer: You are a master of building and creating machines. Tinkerers get a +4 bonus skill levels to the Engineering Skill. These bonuses ride on top of the normal skill levels. This means that a Tinkerer is NEVER unskilled at constructing Engineering only items, even if he doesnt have the appropriate skill.
  * Underground Connection: This is a presence based sub-power but due to some family or old buddies you have connections in all sorts of underground or criminal circles. From gambling, smuggling illegal goods, to thieve's guild sponsored death matches you are on the inside loop. Automatically once per game know somebody in a related area and can call in a favor.
  * Vampire: Gain +2 to two attributes (and their maximums) of your choice (not the same one), but sunlight now causes your harm. For each round you stand in direct sunlight (without some type of protection or covering) you take 1d6 burn damage to your hitpoints which you cannot heal until nightfall. In addition you may heal d6 points of damage to yourself once per day per will point. Only sunlight or beheading while staked will kill a vampire otherwise at normal death the vampire is forced into gaseous form until they reform at the next dusk. Finally the vampire may only sustain himself on blood, and must drink at least 20 pints per week (even a sustained vampire). When a vampire drinks blood (from any creature type) they heal one point per pint they consume. Vampire is mutually exclusive with Fujisawa and Lycanthrope (only one of these three may be chosen).
  * Warlord: You are a master of combat and strategy. Warlords get +2 bonus skill levels to the Melee, Missile and Tactics skill. This bonus rides on top of the normal skill level. This means that a warlord is NEVER unskilled at physical combat, even if he doesnt buy the appropriate skill.
  * Wealth: Simple stated, you are filthy rich. Start off with 1d6 * 1,000AP fortune.

##  Spells

*Unless otherwise noted, all spells can be dispelled at will. Spells are not cumulative with themselves normally (can't cast the same spell twice and get double the bonus). But in many cases you may cast two similar spells that add to an attribute or stat and reap the reward of combining the bonuses. Spells may not be case while wearing any type of mundane armor as the heavy protective materials interfere with the mystic aura that shrouds the caster during magical energy manipulation. Those with the Armored Caster sub-power have developed an internalized form of the magic spell casting process, allowing them to wear the heavist of armors without penalty.

Spell casting requires that the caster make physical movements with at least
one arm/hand/appendage for creatures without arms. They also must be able to
vocalize the incantations (which may be done underwater). Certain spells may
not require the physical and/or vocalization specified in their description.

Caster level is determined by the skill in that magic area. For spells which
require multiple schools like cross-over or All school spells your effective
caster level is the minimum of the requried spell areas. Treat each magic area
as a skill when raising with xp, the first level of which is gained via
initial power points or tomes of power. The total mana points or power pool of
a caster is the caster’s thought + level mana points/each level gained, i.e. a
4th level air mage with a thought of 5 has 5 + 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 mana. Add mana
for each area of magic learned (including mana when access to a new ALL level
is gained). Magic points are regained after 8 hours of rest (take fractions
for less than this amount of rest).

Upon gaining a new skill level in any section of magic (except cross-over
spells) choose one spells of that area that is learned. Only cross-over spells
must be learned from scrolls or researched with Lore skill.

Some spells may require a Caster Level vs. Attribute check to take affect or
for secondary effects to activate. In these cases compare d20 + Caster Level
vs. Target Attribute + 11. Some checks may be Caster Level vs. Attribute + X,
in this case roll d20 + Caster Level vs. Target Attribute + 11 + X.

Spells that summon another creature usually take one full round for the
caster. These spells generally last one hour. Any creatures summoned that
normally have spellcasting abilities are summoned with full mana or magic
pools although they are unable to summon any other beings. These powerful
creatures can act as magic force multipliers and effectively provide
additional mana for spellcasters mighty enough to summon them.

###  Spell Mastery:

Mages can, if they so choose, opt to become masters at certain skills. It is
possible to become far better at a certain spell than the regular caster,
given a sufficient amount of practice. Spell mastery costs the level of the
spell + 5 in XP, and adds 5 to the effective level of the caster when casting
that spell. So, a mage choosing to specialize in Wrath Of God must pay 6XP; a
mage choosing to master in StoneSkin must pay 9XP and in either case would
cast those spells at their normal skill level + 5.

###  Fire Spells

Level 1

  * Fire Bolt \- A firey bolt shoots out from the caster’s hand to strike one target. Dam: 6 + (1/lvl). Range 100 + 20 yards/lvl. May ignite combustable materials.
  * Dodge – Target gets +2 evade for 1 hr/lvl. Range 10yds.
  * Protection from Fire – Target gets +6 skin D.R. against fire. Range: touch. Duration 1 hr/lvl.

Level 2

  * Touch of Fire – A firey aura extends from an existing flame and surrounds the caster. Any who wish to engage the caster in melee combat take d6 + (1 point of fire damage per caster level), per successful strike against the caster. The duration is 5 rnds/lvl.
  * Fire in the Sky – A spectacular pyrotechnics display erupts up to a 100ft/lvl of the caster In a area of 10 ft radius/lvl for 1 rnd per level. The fireworks are completely harmless and cannot ignite a fire unless used on extremely flammable substances.
  * Fire Wall – At the completion of this spell, a sheet of fire springs up from the ground rising up to 60ft high. It can be up to 80ft long and 2ft wide. No damage is suffered, unless someone passes through it. In such a case, the transgressor takes 1d6 (+ 2dam/lvl). The fire wall can be created in mid air but must always be vertical. The wall can also be cast on a target who get’s +4 to evade ( the caster makes a missile attack against the target’s evade+4).

Level 3

  * Touch of Flame – This spell causes a target weapon, or 50 arrows, bolts, stones, etc. to erupt in fire on a successful strike. It grants +2 to base damage which counts as magical fire damage. Duration 1hr/lvl. Range: touch.
  * Everlasting Lantern – Creates a permanent lighted area of equivelant to a bright lantern around the target of the spell. If the target is a creature of some sort, you must make a caster vs. target will check. Range: 60yards.

Level 4

  * Fireball – A ball of fire flies out of the caster’s hand to explode at a target. Area of effect: 5 foot radius per level. (Can be a smaller radius if desired). Range: 100 yards + 20 yards/lvl. Damage: 8+(1/lvl). The spellcaster rolls to hit using his missile skill ( a single attack roll) this is applied to all targets in the area, a miss incurs no damage. This spell takes a full round to cast.
  * Fire Blade – Creates a blade made out of fire emanating from the caster’s closed fist. Damage: Str + 2 + .5points/level(rnd down). Can ignite flammable objects. Duration: 5 rounds/level.

Level 5

  * Summon Fire Elemental – This spell summons a Fire Elemental 2. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The Fire entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.
  * Symbol of Flame – This spell creates a magical ruin which, when within 10 feet of any animate target that does not state the deactivation word within 1 second, blasts out with fire consuming the target. Only one such ruin may activate within a 10feet radius per round (can't drop 100 stones with Symbol's carved on them onto something and have them all go off, only a single one would activate per round that an animated target is within 10'). Damage 2d6+(1/lvl) with a roll to hit of d20 + 10 + 1/caster level. The ruin is then deactivated permanently. The ruin can remain inactivated indefinitely. The ruin requires a surface area of 5 by 5 feet and is invisible until activated.
  * Ring of Fire – A magical ring of fire surrounds the caster causing 6 + (1/lvl) damage to all targets that are within 5 feet of the caster anytime during a round. Duration 5 rnds/lvl.

Level 6

  * Smoke Cloud – This spell creates a large cloud of hot smoke with a radius of 5 yards. All caught within the cloud are left hacking and reeling. Roll a Caster Level vs. Durability (only one such check is made by the caster for all targets), targets are effectively prone for the duration of the spell losing movement, -4 to hit, -4 to evade (opponents get +4 to hit them), and -1 actions (min of 1). Range 30 yrds/lvl. Duration 1 rnd/lvl.
  * Action – Target gets +1 action (not cumulative) for 2 rnds/lv. Range touch. Duration and extra actions take effect immediately.

Level 7

  * Reflexes – Target gets +4 to hit bonus. Range: touch. Duration: 2 rnds/lvl.
  * Summon Greater Fire Elemental – This spell summons a Fire Elemental 3. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The Fire entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.

Level 8

  * Eyes of Fire – The caster’s eyes sparkle with magical flame and may remain this way for up to 1 rnd/level. During this duration the caster may use an action to launch forth a focused jet of fire causing 12 + (1/lvl) damage to a single target within 30 feet with a normal missile attack.
  * Ritual of Fire Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

Level 9

  * Ashes – With a mere utterance, the caster can burn 1 target dead to the ground. Area of effect: 1 target. Range: 30 feet. Roll to hit normally. 2d6+5+(2/lvl) damage.
  * Summon Ancient Fire Elemental – This spell summons a Fire Elemental 4. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The Fire entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.

Level 10

  * Fire Storm – A powerful firestorm floods a huge area purging all those in the area for 2d6 + 4 + 1dam/lvl. The area of this spell is 500 ft radius/lvl. Range 600ft/lvl. No roll to hit big bad boom. “The city was consumed in flame as if hell had opened up on it!”, the single survivor of Gamora the flying turtle backed city. Casting time for this spell is one minute and it may only be cast once per day.

###  Water Spells

1st Level

  * Close Wounds – Heals target for d6+1 hp. Range: Touch.
  * Summon Mini-Water Elemental – This fast casting summoning spell brings forth a midget water elemental 1, that lasts for 1hr/lvl. Range 10yards.
  * Create Water – Creates 1 cubic foot per caster level of water, at 10 foot/lvl range.
  * Ice Blast – Shoots a blast of cold energy that freezes opponents. Damage: 6+(1/lvl).
  * Protection from Ice – Target gets +6 skin D.R. against ice damage. Range: touch. Duration 1 hr/lvl.

2nd Level

  * Ice Armor – Creates a frosty sheen over your current armor, or clothing, that has a base Armor DR 4. Duration 1hr/level.
  * Chill – Cools the temperature to 30° F in a 30 foot radius around target. The chilling effect lasts for up to 1 hours/level, and can be cast upon any object/person within a 10 foot/level range of the caster. If cast upon a creature, a Caster vs. Will check must be made.

3rd Level

  * Water Walk – Target can walk on water for up to 1 hour/level. Target needs to be touched.
  * Wave – Creates a huge wave of water. This wave mysteriously appears out of nowhere (think of old Starburst commercials), and is scented in one of 4 fruit flavors. Wave is up to 20 feet wide, and up to 10 feet high. The wave knocks opponents down and does 2 points of damage. To determine if a victim is knocked over, the caster makes one wave check, d20 + Caster Level. This value is compared for each target, Target's Durability + 11. If the wave check equals or succeeds this number, the target is knocked down. Repeat for all foes affected.
  * Cure Disease: Cures any normal disease, and some magical diseases. Success is automatic, unless the disease is either magical, or the Plague. In the latter case, d20 * 2 * Caster Level vs. the disease rating. If successful, the disease, and all symptoms, are removed from the target. Range: touch. AOE: 1 target. Note: the average plague difficulty is 18. Most magical diseases are at least of difficulty 22.

4th Level

  * Summon Storm – Summons a rain (or snow, depending on the temperature) storm over the region. Alternatively, you can create a small rain cloud above a specific target’s head, for double the duration. Area of effect: 1/mile radius/level OR 1 target. Duration: 1 hr/lvl.
  * Shatter – Roll to hit an item. If successful, the target freezes. Once this happens, the item or objects DR is lowered by 4. Adamantite is unaffected.

5th Level

  * Summon Water Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. It summons a water elemental 2, that lasts for 1hr. Range 10yards.
  * Exploding Ice Sphere \- This spell summons forth a giant exploding freezing sphere. Volume of effect: 5 foot radius sphere per level. Range: 100 yards + 20 yards/lvl. Damage: 6+(1/lvl). The spellcaster rolls to hit using his missile skill ( a single attack roll) this is applied to all targets in the area, a miss incurs no damage. A single secondary roll is made by the caster and applied to any targets struck, Caster level vs. Target's Durability. If successful the target is stuck in ice for one round and cannot physically move. This spell takes a full round to cast.
  * IceBridge – Creates a bridge of ice 10 feet wide and 10 ft/level long. Duration: 1 hour/level. Range: 10 Feet.

6th Level

  * Cure Blindness/Deafness – Can cure blindness/deafness. Area of effect: 1 target. Can cure all forms of blindness and deafness, including those caused by magical reasons. Reversible, counts as a will-based attack (Caster Check vs. Target Will). Duration permanent. Blind targets give all opponents +4 to evade in melee and can't normally make missile attacks (Alertness vs. Stealth checks could allow ranged targeting though).
  * Regeneration – The target of this spell regenerates 1hp/rnd for 5rnds/lvl duration but it's not powerful enough to grow back more than fingers or ears (small apendages).

7th Level

  * Heal – Cures diseases, poisons, all damage, and almost all other afflictions. One casting of this spell will reture one target to perfect health.
  * Summon Water Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. It summons a water elemental 3, that lasts for 1hr. Range 10yards.

8th Level

  * Greater Regeneration – The target of this spell regenerates 4hp/rnd for 5rnds/lvl duration and will grow back severed limbs.
  * Ritual of Water Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

9th Level

  * Summon Water Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. It summons a water elemental 4, that lasts for 1hr. Range 10yards.
  * Resurrection \- Resurrect one target, casting time is 1 round. The target is revived with maximum hitpoints.

10th Level

  * Tsunami – This spell summons a 200 foot tall wave of water which affects an area 500 ft wide and 500 ft long per level. Range 500 ft/lvl. Roll to hit (one roll applied against all targets). Those who are not hit are able to swim safely through the wave before it crushes them. Characters with the swim skill add half it (rounded down) as a bonus to their evade. Damage is 2d6 + 4 + 1/lvl. Casting time is one minute. This spell may be cast once per day.

###  Air Spells

1st Level

  * Shove Counter – This spell pushes on an object with a focused force. Make a check of d20 + caster level vs. Target's Will + 15. If the caster is successful any spell the target was casting is interrupted, it causes a loss of those spell points. To successful disrupt a spell you must hold an action before an opponent's initiative. This spell may also be used to force a target to drop something or get knocked over (check d20 + caster level vs. Target's STR + 15 or Target's DUR + 15 respectively). Range: 100 + 20 yards/level.
  * Wind Speak – The Air will carry sound from any known or stated place “(i.e. 60 yards that way) to the caster, or from him to the place. Range: 20 miles/level. Area of Effect: 20 foot radius sphere. Duration: 1 minute.
  * Shock Bolt – A little bolt of electricity flies from the caster to strike one target. Damage is 6+(1/level). Range: 100+20 yards/level.
  * Protection from Lightning \- +6 skin DR vs. Electrical damage. Range: touch. Duration 1 hr/lvl.

2nd Level

  * Unnoticed Maid – A visible but hardly ever noticed (Alertness check against difficulty 30) humanoid shaped wind “hotty” carries or moves up to 20 pounds. Must stay within 60 feet of the caster. Duration: 2 hours/level.
  * Helping Hand \- A strange hand follows the caster around. This hand is made out of pink flowers and green candy canes, coated in molasses for texture. The hand can carry up to 100 pounds + 50 pounds / level. Duration: 1 hour / level.
  * Gust – This spell creates a 30 mph wind in a 10 foot high * 10 foot wide * 160 foot long area. It can stir up dust , speed or slow down flyers, or anything else applicable. Range: 20 feet/level.
  * Dense Air 1 – A shell of hard air forms around a target. The shell cannot be seen, but can be felt. It provides 2 Armor DR and does not interfere with spell casting. Range: Touch. Area of Effect: 1 target. Duration: 1 hour/level.
  * Hover – The wizard and 200 lbs /level can hover above any liquid or solid surface. They can walk on air, but only at half normal movement rate. If cast while high in the air, you fall at a normal rate, but when you near the ground, you start to decelerate very quickly. Take no falling damage. Range: 20 yards. Duration: 1 mintue/level.

3rd Level

  * Clean Air (Reversible) – Creates a sphere of clean air in which all are protected from any poison gas, even magical. The reverse, Air of Putrescence, creates a sphere of poisonous gas (damage: 2 points per round (0 if target is sustained), no DR). It can’t be evaded, but it can be moved out of by using an action for movement. If you manage to leave the cloud in the initial round, you take no damage. Clean Air may be cast on an portable object, including people, and can be moved around; Air of Putrescence is fixed at the place where it was cast. Range: 20 yards/level. Duration: 1 minute/level. Area of Effect: 15 foot radius.
  * Guiding Wind – May be cast upon 50 missiles. These missiles are enchanted with a +4 hit for the duration of the spell. Range: Touch. Duration: 1 hour/level.
  * Flight – This spell confers the ability to fly to 1 target. The base speed while flying is double normal movement rate while traveling horizontally, ½ normal movement rate while ascending, and 4 times normal movement rate while descending. Area of Effect: 1 target. Range: touch. Duration: 1 hour + 10 minutes/level.

4th Level

  * Lightning Bolt – A bolt of lightning, 10 feet wide and 60 feet long, flies from the caster’s hand in the desired direction. Damage: 8 + 1/caster level. The caster makes one roll to hit and applies it to all targets in the area. This spell takes one full round to cast. Metal armor gives no DR but magical bonuses still apply (i.e. 1 DR for Plate + 1). Range: 100+20 yards/level
  * Toss – This spell causes a powerful gust to toss a target through the air. The effective strength of this spell is 6 + Caster Level. Roll a missile attack, if successful the base damage is the strength. After a successful missile attack, to determine if the target is affected roll d20 + Effective Strength vs. Target's Durability + 11. Distance thrown is 10 feet per success over the difficulty in a direction of a caster’s choosing. Range: 40 yards/level.
  * Dense Air 2 – Same as Dense Air I, but it gives Armor of 4DR. Duration: 1hr/level.
  * Lightning Strike — A bolt of lightning strikes down from the sky upon 1 target. Base Damage: 2d6+2 +(1/level). Range: 100 + 20 yards/level.

5th Level

  * Air Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. This spell summons an Air Elemental 2 for 1hour. Range 10yards.
  * Defensive Wind – This spell causes a powerful wind to blow away light missile weapons targeted at the caster. It grants a +4 evade to such weapons. Area of Effect: Caster, Duration:10 minutes/level
  * Lightning Blade – Creates a blade made out of lightning emanating from the caster’s fist. Damage: Str + 2 + .5points/level(round down). Ignores mundane armor DR due to metal armor and can only be parried by non-conductive objects (not hands, or metal swords, but a wooden staff would work). Duration: 5 rounds/level.

6th Level

  * Invisibility — This spell turns one target invisible. Invisible targets get a +4 bonus to their Deflection (Evade/Parry) if they can be detected. They are not normally visible at all, except for a very slight rippling effect at the edges of ones vision. Add +4 to any stealth checks to determine if the invisible person is detected by alertness (d20 + Alertness + WIL vs. Stealth + AGI + 4). This spell can be cast in one of two ways: 1) – Makes a target invisible until they make or receive an attack, or 2) – Makes a target invisible for 5 minutes/level. Once the invisible target takes or receives an attack the rippling effect allows them to be targeted (they still gain the +4 Deflection bonus). Range: 10 yards.
  * Airbridge – Creates a bridge made out of air, up to 40 feet wide, up to a mile long. The air- bridge is as solid as stone, and shimmers slightly (like a heat wave). Lasts for up to 1 day, and does not need to be attached to anything at either end. Can be created at up to a 45 degree angle, with or without stairs. It can bend, change directions, change angle, etc., as long as that is determined before casting. Once it has been invoked, it stays the way it was created.

7th Level

  * Dense Air 3 – Same as Dense Air 1&2, but it gives Armor of 2+.5 DR/level ( rounded down). Duration: 1hr/level.
  * Summon Greater Air Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. This spell summons an Air Elemental 3 for 1hour.

8th Level

  * Chain Lightning \- create a vicious rapid fire chain of bolts that arcs out from your hands up to 1 target per level all within range. The damage caused by each bolt is d6 + 2/lvl. Casting time for this spell is one full round. Range: 100 + 20 yards/level.
  * Ritual of Air Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

9th Level

  * Blazing Lightning Strike — A bolt of lightning strikes down from the sky upon 1 target. Base Damage: 2d6 + 2 +(2/level). Range: 100 + 20 yards/level.
  * Summon Ancient Air Elemental – Casting this spell takes 1 round. This spell summons an Air Elemental 4 for 1hour. Range 10yards.

10th Level

  * Hail of Lightning Destruction – Bolts of lightning rain down from above affecting one target per round for 2d6 + 4 + (1 dam/lvl) in a 5 foot per caster level radius. Casting time is one minute. This spell may be cast once per day. Range: 300 yards/lvl. Duration 5 rnds/lvl.

###  Spirit Spells

1st Level

  * Sense Magic – Can sense the general strength and type of magic in the area. Range: 60 feet/level, Duration: 2 rounds/level, Area of Effect: 1 target.
  * Unseen by Undead – Undead don’t see the target for the duration of the spell, though they can still smell, hear, taste, touch, or use other senses to detect the target. Range: touch, duration: 1 hour, Area of Effect: 1 target/level.
  * Coolness Field – Target gets +2 presence for 1 hours/level. Range: touch
  * Protection from Spirits \- +6 skin DR vs mind attacks and spirit attacks (ghosts, specters etc.). Duration 1hr/level.

2nd Level

  * Illusionary Troop – Makes 5+(1/Level) levels of illusionary troops. They can’t do any real damage, but they appear to be completely real to all senses.
  * Minds Eye – creates a visual image of the target’s thoughts behind their head. Duration: 1 hr/lvl. Caster must overcome target’s will.
  * Sense Thought – Attempt to read the thoughts of the target. Will check to succeed. Failure by 2 or more tips off the target. Can choose multiple targets during the spell’s duration, but can only read 1 target at a time. Range: Sight. Duration: 1 minute/level.
  * Mind Bullets — Evade as normal, but damage is mental based (DR is target’s will/3). Damage: 6 + (1/level). Area of Effect: 1 target. Range: 40 yards/level.
  * Yes you will! – Target gets + ½ caster levels (round down) to their next will based spell (offensive, not defensive). Range: touch, Duration: 1 hour.

3rd Level

  * Befriend – 1 target. Will check. Target won’t harm self or friends, but is willing to take you seriously and consider your other suggestions. Duration: 4 days/level – 2 days/targets thought.
  * Spirit Wall – serves as a barrier to undead. Duration: 1 hour/level. Area of Effect 10ft by 10ft per level.
  * Mind Shield \- +4 to will defense for resisting any checks against your will. Also 2+.5 skin DR/lvl (round down) against all mental based attacks. 1hr/level. Effects 1 target.

4th Level

  * Replay – Lets you see everything that happened where you are standing for the last 24 hours over the course of an hour. Can only see what you would see from your current point of view. Pay 4 mana points per sense to replay (sight/sound/taste/touch/smell).
  * Lesser Power Sink – this spell can undue magical effects that are 1hr/level or other shorter durations spells on a successful dispel roll of the caster’s level vs the spell effects power level + 4 (the level of the caster of that spell, one roll applies to all spells). Area of effect 1 target (all active spells on that target) or one object (all magical effects active on that target, and deactivates the item for d6 rounds). This spell may be held (see combat section) if you win initiative over your opponent and time it right (basically reserve a single action), to dispel a spell as they cast it effectively countering it. Treat the ALL school of magic spells as power level + 2 for the purpose of dispelling. Range 100yards + 20yards/level.

5th Level

  * Phantasm – creates spectral nightmare that plagues a specific target, if phantasm succeeds in killing in the target ( Caster Level check vs Target’s will + 4), the target ages 10 years and must cry like an old man.
  * Knockout – Forces 1 target to go to sleep. This complex spell has a casting time of one round. To determine success, make a check of Caster Level vs. Target's Will + 2 (d20 + Caster Level vs. Target's Will + 2 + 11). Duration: lasts until the target is disturbed or a maximum of 1hr. Range: 100 yards + 20yards/level.

6th Level

  * Macroscope – An amazing kick ass version of clairvoyance. The caster gets a view of the entire world and you can zoom in and out at whatever resolution you want. Duration 10min/level. The view can be internal or external (viewed by others). Range and Area of effect: Infinite.

7th Level

  * Power Sink – this spell can undue magical effects that are normally permanent or other shorter durations spells on a successful dispel roll of the caster’s level vs. the spell effects power (the level of the caster of that spell, one roll applies to all spells). Area of effect 1 target (all active spells on that target) or one object (all magical effects active on that target, and deactivates the item for d6 rounds). This spell may be held if you move faster than your opponent or time it right (hold your action), to dispel a spell as they cast it effectively countering it. Treat the ALL school of magic spells as power level + 2 for the purpose of dispelling. Range 100 yards + 20yards/level.

8th Level

  * Brain Stir Fry \- an area of effect mental blast that can lead it's victims to years of psychological counseling (which is capable of targeting just the victim's wallet). Roll a Caster Level Check and apply it to all target's will + 2. Each target successful affected acts randomly for the duration of the spell which is 1 round/level. Range 100yards + 20yards per level. Area of effect up to 1 target per caster level in a 5 foot per level radius sphere. Roll a d6 to determine an affected target's course of action for the duration of the spell, the target:
  1. begins uncontrollably drooling -2 to all skill checks (melee/acrobatica/climbing/etc.)
  2. begins whistling dixie and hopping on one leg. -4 to all skill checks (melee/acrobatica/climbing/etc.)
  3. spew forth spring loaded toy snakes. -4 to all skill checks (melee/acrobatica/climbing/etc.)
  4. enter a deep coma for the duration of the spell (unless physically disturbed earlier).
  5. sprout a small bud on their shoulder that quickly grows into another head, and it will constantly bicker and argue with the target for the duration of the spell fighting for control causing him skill check penalties of -6 (melee/acrobatica/climbing/etc.)
  * Ritual of Spirit Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

9th Level

  * Boomerang Spirit \- If your character is feeling mentally drained have no fear. You need merely concentrate on the perfection of simple existence and being to call forth the blessings of the demigods of wisdom and compassion. Up to one target per caster level is given this beneficial boost to their Will and Durability, equal to the caster level/2 (round down). Duration 5 rounds per level. Area of effect, targets within range of the caster. Range 10yards.

10th Level

  * Reformat Persona – Wipes out target’s personality and replaces it with one more inclined to help the caster with his or her goals (not absolute opposite, some remnants remain of the old personality). Duration permanent until dispelled, resisted with targets will normally (nasty). Range 100yards + 20yards/lvl.
  * Ultimate Power Sink – this spell can undue magical effects that are normally permanent or other shorter durations spells on a successful dispel roll of the caster’s level +4 vs. the spell effects power (the level of the caster of that spell, one roll applies to all spells). Area of effect 1 target (all active spells on that target) or one object (all magical effects active on that target, and deactivates the item permanently). This spell may be held if you move faster than your opponent or time it right (hold your action), to dispel a spell as they cast it effectively countering it. Treat the ALL school of magic spells as power level + 2 for the purpose of dispelling.
  * City Ward \- This spell protects a location from the level 10 massive area of effect spells centered on a target item up to a 15x15x15' object. Area of Effect up to 500 foot/level radius about the object. It is designed to act as a potent magic power sink when any of this invocations are cast against said location it automatically disperses the the spell with no effect. Duration 1 day/level. Casting time 1 round.

###  Earth Spells

1st Level

  * Earth Armor – Gives you a think rock-like shell that moves easily with your body and doesn't interfere with spellcasting, 2 Armor DR. Duration: 1 hour/level.
  * Edible Rock – Makes a rock edible. It tastes great, and is completely nutritious (1 meal’s value), although somewhat crunchy. Can use an existing rock (or stone/gem), or summon one. Magical stones/gems eaten in this way have been known to have bizzare and sometimes long lasting side effects (let the gm be creative).
  * Garett’s Hammer Fist – A mystically summoned powerful iron mallet in the shape of a fist strikes a target with strength 6 + (1/lvl). Roll to hit with missile skill.
  * Summon Minor Earth Elemental \- Summons an Earth Elemental 1. This 1 foot high elemental (humanoid form made of earthy materials that happen to be nearby). STR/DUR/AGI/THT:2 Duration: 2 hours/level. Range 10yards.
  * Protection from Stone/Earth \- Target gets +6 skin D.R. against stone/stone weapons/rock attacks. Range: touch. Duration 1 hr/lvl.

2nd Level

  * Scribe – Causes a specified mark to be carved out of any surface. This mark can take the form of a sigil, the caster’s name, a short (10 words or less) message, etc. If cast against a living object, caster’s must hit target missile attack. The mark lasts for 1 day per level.
  * Pottery Item – Creates any type of pottery item, as long as it fits within a 1 cubic foot / level volume. Duration: Permanent.
  * Steadfast – Makes you immune to wind attacks and gives you +2 to durability checks. Duration: 1 hour/level

3rd Level

  * Mud (Reversible) – Turns the ground to mud (or mud to solid ground) in the area of effect. Normal land based movement in the mud is restricted to target Strength - Caster level yards per second (minimum of 1 yard a round). This doesn't restrict leaping/flying/arboreal travel. Range: 100 yards. Area of Effect: 10 yard radius.
  * Earthworks – This spell moves earth and stone at the rate of 125 cubic feet per round (i.e. 5x5x5feet section). Can dig a hole in the ground (or even solid rock) as long as the ground is made up of some natural earthy material. The hole will remain until it naturally caves in or is filled in. Duration: 1 round/level. Range: 15 feet.

4th Level

  * Bond – join any two substances together. The effect is permanent until dispelled. Living and undead targets require a Caster Level check vs. target's Will (Note that this spell is particularly vicious when combined with a weapon strike). Area of effect two objects touching eachother. Target must be visible. Range 100 yards.
  * Lesser Obsidian Sheath – Normally this stone shatters apart leaving moleculary thin edges behind, but when this spell is cast the mage's skin forms into an impact proof version of the stone. The mage receives +2 skin DR. The duration is 1 hr/lvl. This spell is caster only.

5th Level

  * Summon Earth Elemental – This spell summons a Earth Elemental 2. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The earth entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.
  * Thuloid Stone Worms \- Stone worms sprout out of the ground in a 5 foot per caster level radius area or smaller for a duration of 1 round/level. Any targets in the area are attacked by d6 worms, hit roll d20+10+Caster Level, Base damage:6+1/lvl. Worms may be destroyed but new stone worms sprout out of the ground to replace them. In addition Thuloid Stone worms obscures vision up to 10feet high through the area in which they were cast. Range 100yards + 20yards per level.
  * Pedestal of Might \- This incredible earth magic creates a pedestal under the caster which springs forth from the ground and can be raised up to 10' per caster level. The duration is 5 rnds/lvl, and any spells cast from the pedestal by the mage have an effective Earth magic level of +2.

6th Level

  * Shock Wave \- The caster strikes the ground and a mighty shock wave ripples along the surface towards any target with 10' of the ground. Roll to hit using missile skill, with a base damage of Base Damage: 2d6+5 +(1/level). Range: 100 + 20 yards/level.
  * Stone Cage \- Summons forth a stone cage just large enough to capture the target. Make a missile attack roll to see if the prison hits. If successful the target must make a check of Target Strength vs. 8 + Caster Level to break free. Otherwise they are immobilized and unable to take any actions that require movement.

7th Level

  * Obsidian Sheath – Normally this stone shatters apart leaving moleculary thin edges behind, but when this spell is cast the mage's skin forms into an impact proof version of the stone. The mage receives 1 skin DR per two caster skill levels) (i.e. +3 skin DR at lvl 7, +4 skin DR at 8-9, etc.) Cumulative with other skin DRs as normal. The duration is 1 hr/lvl. This spell is caster only.
  * Summon Greater Earth Elemental – This spell summons a Earth Elemental 3. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The earth entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.

8th Level

  * Viscosity – Target’s movements are slowed (effectively as if their agility were (2 +.5/level (rnd down)) less, down to a minimum of 1. Area of Effect: 1 target/level. Make a single caster level check and apply it to all targets Will to determine if it is successful. Range: 20 yards. Duration: 1 rnd/level.
  * Ritual of Earth Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

9th Level

  * Stone Prison \- Summons forth a stone prison just large enough to capture the targets. May affect 1 target per caster level. Make a missile attack roll to see if the prison hits (apply one roll to all targets evade). If successful the target must make a check of Target Strength vs. 10 + Caster Level to break free. Otherwise they are immobilized and unable to take any actions that require movement.
  * Summon Ancient Earth Elemental – This spell summons a Earth Elemental 4. The casting time for this spell is 1 round. The earth entity is summoned for 1 hour. Range 10yards.

10th Level

  * Earth Quake – Creates a devastating earthquake which does damage to all within the area. The damage is 10 + (1/lvl). Casting time is one minute. This spell may be cast once per day. The area of effect is 500 ft radius/lvl. The range is 600ft/lvl. Those on top/within structures that survive that round of the quake take no damage that round. The duration is 1 round/lvl.

###  ALL Spells

ALL spells are potent in their casting, and only true Arch-Magi are able to
focus enough to spin the complicated threads of magic necessary to form and
cast such magics. When affected by other powers or spells treat the ALL magic
spells as power level + 2 (i.e. dispelling effects of power sink).

1st Level

  * Spatial Sense – Allows objects to be seen within a 60 ft radius (light conditions don’t affect this sense although solid obstructions will block it). Will checks to notice concealed targets are made at +4. (note sneaking up behind someone with spatial sense is impossible unless invisibility is used). Duration: 1hr/lvl.
  * Lesser War Blessing – The target of this spell get’s +1 to hit/base damage for all melee, missile, AND Spell attacks for 5 rnds/lvl.
  * Wrath of God – an attack spell which can manifest in any way the caster wishes (including elemental type/effect) and base damage is 10 + (1 dam/lvl), a missile roll to hit is required. The damage type of Wrath of God is always physical (so it is resisted through normal physical defenses/DR). Range: 100 yrds + 20yrds/lvl.
  * Bind Familiar – the caster binds a creature to serve as an ally. If the familiar perishes the caster loses 1 durability for 1 month’s time. Familiar’s may range from predator birds, to pseudo dragons, to imps, to frogs. One sub-power may be chosen that is granted by the familiar to the spellcaster.
  * Summon Mushroom Man – a short mushroom man appears to willingly serve the caster. Str 4,dur 4,agil 4, thought & will 2, pres 8. duration 1hr/lvl, permament after the mushroom man dies. The mushroom steaks made from a mushroom man tastes delicious. Casting time is 1 round. Note that a Mushroom Man who is killed, then resurrected remains indefinitely. Range 10yards.

2nd Level

  * Summon Creature – Summons a first level monster to serve the caster. Duration: 1 hr. Casting time is 1 round. Range 10yards.
  * Lesser Power \- +1 to a stat even over maximum (1hr/lvl) to one target within 30feet, not cumulative in same stat.
  * Ancient Oath – 1 willing target is bound to an oath they make. Every week they fail to pursue it, they get sicker ( -2 to durability, regained at 1 pt /day when the quest is resumed).

3rd Level

  * Flying Carpet – 1 person/lvl and 500 lbs/lvl may fly about on a great carpet which flies at speed 20 ( cruises at 40mph, but can race at up to 120 mph). Of course a carpet or other appropriate flat surface is necessary for this spell to function. Duration 1hour/level.
  * Fantastic Mount – The caster can summon a creature that's physical appearance is however the caster desires. It can fly, swim, water walk, and tunnel (any locomotion) safely with the caster and any other riders it can support and has attributes to the caster’s ALL skill level + 6, Bonus skin DR and Acrobatica equal to the caster's ALL level, and Grit:3. Size, elephant sized or smaller ( a small dragon or a dragonfly would be fine). The same mount is always summoned, although it's physical form and size may vary, over time this mount may advance other skills. It is summoned with a saddle and is obedient to the caster but can be very intelligent in it's service. Range 10yards.

4th Level

  * Power – identical to power but +2 to a stat. Duration 1hr/lvl.
  * Son of Bitch – minor hex, target gets –4 to an attribute of choice (opposing will check: roll d20 + All Skill vs. Target's Will + 11), not cumulative. Duration: 1 day/lvl.

5th Level

  * Ball O’ Will – transforms a normally will based spell into a missile targeted spell. The additional mana must be spent and it requires an additional action ( two actions to cast sleep ball).
  * Magic Book – Creates a magic book. Types of magic books that this can create:
  * Tome of Correspondence (2) – Words written in one tome will appear in another.
  * Book of Dictation – Records anything within hearing range. Hearing range determined by caster.
  * Book of Recall – Same as Replay spell, except it just writes it down.
  * Book of Everlasting – Immune to all effects of time/weather/aging. Artificial means (hacksaw, fireball, etc) can damage it. (Toughness 6).
  * Teleport – This spell allows the caster and 1 willing target/lvl (within the weight limits, 200 lbs / lvl) to teleport to another location. The spell can be manifest as a portal or the targets can simply hold hands and vanish. Distance to that location is not a factor and success is automatic but fairly specific information must be known about the location like: 100 miles west and 50 miles north of here, or my bedroom in the town of Pakradin, or the secluded waterfall 2 miles north of the druid circle- but vague information like a red portal to hell, or the Dark Mage Korvax’s treasure hoarde would simply fail.
  * Summon Monster – Summons up to a 2nd Level monster(or 2 first,1 second) to serve the caster. Duration: 1 hr. Casting time is 1 round.

6th Level

  * Greater Power – like power and increased power but +3 to a stat point. Duration 1hr/lvl.
  * Link – Creates a permanent portal between two places. After initial casting it lasts as long as the wizard desires, the material component is a gem which is destroyed in the casting valued at 10AP.
  * Permanency – May lock one spell on a single target. Only 1 hr/lvl or longer duration spells may be used with permanency. The mana to cast that spell cannot be regained by the caster until the permanency is released or dispelled. If the caster is killed their permanent spells fade by midnight, unless they've been resurrected.

7th Level

  * Gift of God – This mighty spell has the potential of ending aggression by granting mindfulness, wisdom and clear vision to all those within a one mile radius. Although not permanent, even this short glimpse of perfect harmony has been known to change men's lives forever. A single check is made of spellcaster level vs. each targets WIL. If successful that target will refrain from combat and attempt to persuade those nearby to refrain from combat long enough for a more peaceful and enlightenend solution to be achieved (they are able to defend themselves if attacked, but attempt to subdue any aggressors instead of more lethal alternatives). The great dragon wars were settled peacefully by a powerful magus with this spell and his Legendary brother who overawed entire fielded armies. Duration 10min/level.
  * Blessing of War – The target of this spell get’s +3 to hit/base damage (not cumulative with lesser war blessing) for all melee, missile and Spell attacks for 5 rnds/lvl.
  * Summon Greater Monster – Summons up to a 3rd Level monster(or 3 first,1 second + 1 first, etc.) to serve the caster. Duration: 1 hr. Casting time is 1 round. Range 10yards.

8th Level

  * Infernal Power – like power and increased power but +4 to a stat point. Duration 1hr/lvl.
  * Transmogrification – Will check vs targets will + 4 (d20 + All Skill vs. Targets Will + 15). Rearrange physical attribute points. Duration: permanent. Maximum that any stat can be modified by is the All Magic level of the caster/2 rounded down. If an 8th level All magic caster affected a creature he could modify each attribute +/- 4 but the final sum of attributes must match the original total.
  * Ritual of Spectrum Enchantment \- With this ritual a mage may now begin the arduous task of magic item construction. The spell and monetary requirements for item enchantments are listed next to each item in the item section.

9th Level

  * Blazing Episode Ender – The ultimate single target attack spell which can manifest in any way the caster wishes. Base Damage for this attack is 4d6 + 2/level. A missile roll to hit is required and determines additional damage normally. Range: 100 yrds + 20yrds/lvl.
  * Summon Mystic Fortress \- This spell brings into this dimension a fully stocked large fortress that appears to be made of adamantium. It is impervious to attack and any checks to break in without the code word are crack trip difficulty security/open locks skill. It has food supplies to supply an army of 5000, with one day's good eating and the food will remain fresh for the duration of the spell. Any defensive weapons (swords, crossbows, amunition, mundane armor) that are used, vanish when the spell duration ends. Duration 1hr/level.
  * Summon Elder Monster – Summons up to a 4th Level monster(or 4 first, or 2 second, etc.) to serve the caster. Duration: 1 hr. Casting time is 1 round. Range 10yards.

10th Level

  * Ultimate Power – like Infernal power but +5 to a stat point. Duration 1hr/lvl.
  * Greater Magic Tome – Creates a magic knowledge tome that enables the reader to instantly learn level one in the specified elemental subject. The cost of the material component for this spell is very expensive: 500AP. Types of magic books that this can create:
  * Tome of Flames – Learn level one Fire Magic
  * Tome of the Sea – Learn level one Water Magic and eat some tuna
  * Tome of the Skies – Learn level one Air Magic
  * Tome of the Dead – Learn level one Spirit Magic
  * Tome of Stone – Learn level one Earth Magic
  * Create Mystic Power Source \- this mighty spell takes one month of ritual casting (at least an hour per day) to complete but when finished binds enormous amounts of magical energy into a 10 foot cube, mystic power stone (cost 1000AP). One example for it's utility is that the Mystic Power source can be used in Engineering constructs to power the vehicle indefinitely. The stone is incredible durable, DR 30, HP 200 but if destroyed all power supplying ability is lost.

###  Cross-Over Spells

(These spells must be researched or learned from scrolls)

  * Elemental Travel – (fire, earth, air, water Lvl 6) target of spell gains the ability to travel and survive in the chosen elemental plane.
  * Meteor Strike – Earth(10)Fire(10) Does 3d6+6 + 1dam/lvl, area of effect 200 ft/radius. Roll to hit with missile normally (one roll against all targets in the area). Summons one huge gigantic meteor out of the sky. Can be used to level a castle fairly easily with your eyes closed on a day with a bad head cold. Can be dispelled once invoked. Casting time is one full round.
  * Force Wall – Fire(6)Spirit(6) – Creates a wall of force (flat, semi-circle, full-circle but there is no vertical coverage – either bottom or top), length limit 100 feet, height limit 30 feet.) The wall will resist all physical/magical attacks that attempt to go through it. The duration of the wall is 1 hr/lvl.
  * Transmutation – Earth(6)Fire(6) – Change any one substance into any other substance. Sand into gold, dust into diamonds, etc. However, the net worth doesn’t change… you need acres of sand to make an ounce of gold, etc. GM decided whether value is equal or not. Doesn’t affect living things. Permanent. Area of effect – 1 foot cube/level, check Caster level vs. item strength.
  * Curse of the Flying Dagger – Spirit(6)Air(6) – Curses target. When you hold up a dagger, it continuously attacks a chosen target for 2 rounds/lvl at STR,AGI,SKL = Caster Level+8, Actions: (Caster Level / 3) round down. The dagger cannot be destroyed. After first attack, make a Caster Level Check vs. the target's Will. If failed, the spell ends, and the dagger disintegrates. This curse is affecting the target, not the dagger, so dispel magic (etc) must be cast against the target, not the dagger.
  * Chaos Mist – Air(8),Water(6),Fire(6) – Summons a great cloud of doom down from the heavens. The area of effect is 500 yards/level radius. The effects of being within the mist are somewhat random. Make a single Caster Level Check + 10 vs. target(s) Will. The basic effect that visibility is impaired for all those in the cloud, sight range is 5 feet. The random effects are as follows, roll 1d6 (duration 1 round per level).
  1. Movement slowed to half base & number of actions halved (minimum of one)
  2. target forgets who he is and where he is
  3. target begins acting like a little girl
  4. target catches fire ( damage 2d6+8 – skin DR ) for one round
  5. a mysterious but stylish meat helmet forms about the target's head, but doesn't impair vision
  6. target speed is tripled and transforms into random humanoid until spell duration ends (no stat change, just physical appearance and voice)
  * Flying Citadel – Air(10)Earth(10) – Creates a huge flying fortress. This spell brings into this dimension a fully stocked large flying fortress that appears to be made of adamantium. It is impervious to attack and any checks to break in without the code word are crack trip difficulty security/open locks skill. Lasts 1 day but may be recast in order to extend the duration another day ( this spell work’s great with permanency). Base speed 5 yrds per caster level. The Flying Citadel may not “race” any faster ( no jogging or running speeds ).
  * Mystify – Air(4)Spirit(6) – A very useful spell when trying to escape pursuers. Mystify creates the illusion of several different versions of your party heading off in various different directions. This illusion goes as far as creating tracks, sounds, and smell, as well as a visual image of the party itself. The illusion lasts for an 1 hour/level, after which all traces made by the illusion fade away. Up to 2 different copies of the party (consisting of 2 people per level of the caster) can be created per caster level. To see through this illusion an observer must make a check of Will + Alertness vs. (2*Caster's Level) + 16.
  * Pocketspace – Air(4)Earth(4) – Creates an extra-dimensional space useful for storage purposes. The PocketSpace can be cast on any solid surface, (whether it be a stone face, a wall, or the inside of a bag) where it creates a hole into a storage dimension up to 10' cube (10x10x10 feet) per level. This space can only be entered through the one opening created; there is no other exit. The hole can be closed off at the will of the caster. The space lasts for 1 hr/level and may be recast anytime during that duration to extend it. At durations end the contents of the Pocketspace are dropped next to the spellcaster.

##  Skills Details

In addition to Attributes, characters have skills to round out their
abilities. Starting characters get 2*THT in skill points to assist in
character generation. Each skill point can be used to buy 1 level in a skill.
Starting characters can buy a skill up to a maximum of skill level 6.

Advancing a skill after the game starts is more expensive than buying it up
with the starting skill points. A standard gaming session should yield between
10+ XP depending on what the gm feels your characters accomplished. Using XP
points to raise a skill works in the following way:

  * To learn a new skill it costs 1 xp (normal skills).
  * To advance (specialize) a skill, it costs the next level in XP.(i.e. to raise a skill to level 2, it costs 2 points. To raise it from 2 to 3, it costs 3 points).
  * Skill levels are NOT limited and may be raised to any level.

Many powers and sub-powers provide bonus levels to skills. These levels ride
on top of any purchased levels and are cumulative (use the lower base value to
determine the cost to raise the skill directly).

Each level must be paid for. (You can not raise a skill from a 2 to a 4
without first paying for 3). XP may be used to purchase skills at any time.

Skill Mastery: Once level 10 is reached in a skill, your character gains a
mastery ability. An additional mastery is gained every four levels after 10
(14, 18, etc.) if available. This is an ability that you pick (one out of the
list available for any given skill) that helps show that you are truly a
legendary master at that skill. (For example, melee masters can learn thrown
melee weapons, quickdraw, etc). Mastery abilities are listed under each skill
in italics.

Skill List

  * Literacy: [FREE SKILL] (Thought). Every character gets this at Level 1 at no cost. This skill gives the ability to speak, read, and write the characters native language.
  * Linguist: By making a Very Difficult Skill Check (difficulty 26) you can speak/understand fragments of any language you encounter. This includes reading.
  * Pilot Land/Ride Land Creature: [FREE SKILL] (Agility). Every character gets this at Level 1 at no cost. This skill gives the ability to pilot land vehicles and ride land creatures (cart, horse, Juggernaut)
  * Professional Driver/Rider: The ability to move 2 to 3 times the rate of the rest of the “traffic”, take part in high speed chases, spin out and crash without killing yourself and your passengers, etc. This allows the driver/handler to double the movement of the vehicle or mount.
  * Stunt Driver/Rider: The ability to do insane moves like leap over an opening drawbridge, drive a cart with almost no functional parts, or ride a horse with only one leg (Pogo the wondermount is coming to stomp you!), etc. Add +4 to all skill checks made with land vehicles/creatures.
  * Defensive Manuvering: The pilots skill in evading attacks gives the vehicle or mount a +4 to Evade. This bonus can go above and beyond the maximum evade of a vehicle/mount.
  * Acrobatica: (Agility) dodging, jumping, flipping etc. Each level adds one to your evade/dodge. Therefore evade is AGI + Acrobatica + 11.
  * Anime Leap: Standing Jump add 10+lvl feet to vertical jump distances. To horizontal distance add (10+lvl) X 3 feet. Running doubles these distance bonuses.
  * Arboreal Movement: You can move at double normal movement for short bursts, leaping through the trees (max speed of 2X sprinting speed or 6X base move).
  * AutoDodge: Once per round as a free action you may attempt to dodge an attack that would normally have hit you (including critical strikes, and area of effect attacks if you have the movement speed to escape the area), the difficulty of this is the initial attack roll total or in the case of area of effects 30, roll Acrobatica + AGI + d20 a tie in this case is a dodge.
  * RollWithImpact: Your insane agility allows your to you minimize the effect of any attack as long as you are conscious (even surprise attacks), gain an additional DR to all physical/energy attacks equal to your Acrobatica skill/3 rounded down.
  * Alertness: (Will) The skill aids in perception checks. There is no penalty for being unskilled, although each level will aid in detection or search attempts(Will + Alertness + d20)
  * Panoramic Vision: Your extraordinary spatial awareness allows you to have 360 vision.
  * Danger Sense: If you are surprised the council representative gives you one action (not a round of actions) before the surprise occurs and must describe the danger. Note that characters with Danger Sense are never surprised (they always get their full evade/parry, see combat later for details).
  * Artistic Ability: (Presence) Can create any type of art. Can also judge the value of art or beautiful women.
  * Masterpiece: You are able to produce masterpieces of art, earning amazing wealth and fame and the envy and respect of your peers. Each month the player character earns 10 Adamantite Pieces * (Skill Level-9) due to their incredible talents. So 10 Adamantite Pieces per month at level 10, 20 Adamantite Pieces per month at level 11, etc.
  * Math: (Thought) This skill allows a character calculate and use complex mathematics.
  * Absolute Direction Sense: Your character has a feel for where he is in the universe (or dimension even) and can chart his way to the nearest inhabited or life sustaining settlement (players choice) without any special equipment.
  * Linear Algebra: You can guarantee survival as a master of probabilities for a limited time. If the check succeeds (crack trip difficulty) your character cannot be knocked unconscious (lowered to 0 hit points) for his linear algebra level in rounds. This check may only be successfully made once per day (you may keep trying until you succeed). Why is it called Linear Algebra? We dont know. But if you are good at it, you are invincible (at least for a limited time). Or it seems that way, at least. In addition if your character hasnt yet made the check that day upon being knocked unconscious (or killed outright) you can make a roll to activate the ability as you are being injured to stay conscious (and alive) for at least skill level in rounds.
  * Bargaining: (Presence) Attempt to lower price. Each roll Haggling check. Whoever wins add, or subtracts 10% per victory point to/from start price. The range limit is half the listed price to double the listed price.
  * Hagglorious: You never have to pay more than the standard price, and always sell for at least full price (as long as there is a buyer available). In addition once per game session you may talk one non-player character out of some incredible gear for free and they'll be thankful for it.
  * Alchemy: (Thought) This skills grants the character knowledge of the makeup of matter from simple solutions to complicated materials.
  * Demolitions: The character can construct explosive bombs out of simple materials and a sufficient amount of toothpicks. Damage is 4+Chemistry Skill Level (not Chemistry roll). Area effect is 10 * (Chemistry Skill Level) foot radius.
  * True Alchemy: This mastery allows the chemistry master to turn lead into gold. Each month the player character earns 10 Adamantite Pieces * (Skill Level-9) due to their incredible talents. So 10 Adamantite Pieces per month at level 10, 20 Adamantite Pieces per month at level 11, etc.
  * Bowyer/Fletcher: (Agility or Thought) You can make bows, arrows, and bow strings.
  * BowMaster: All bows you create are masterwork bows +2 to hit, of near unbreakable quality
  * Climbing: (Agility averaged with Strength) negates unskilled penalty for climbing. Allows use of climbing gear.
  * SpiderClimb: You can climb any surface (including upside down on ceilings) without equipment at your full normal movement.
  * Cooking: (Thought) You know how to prepare masterly crafted meals of incredible taste and visual appeal.
  * Food Coma: You can completely satiate anyone who eats one of your meals. They no longer wish to do anything other than sit there and digest. You can calm down entire hordes of people this way. (Game Effects: Anyone eating a food coma meal has 1 actions per round for the next 2 hours).
  * Engineering: (Thought) This skill covers the structural design of devices and is used in many areas (bridge building, ship hull design, armored juggernaut design).
  * MasterCrafter: The engineer can created masterly crafted items. Usually, this give a +2 bonus to hit or skill checks to the item for appropriate rolls and is applied to all items constructed requiring this skill. If a vehicle or golem is Master Crafted it's unarmed or ram attacks and skill checks benefit, but this benefit does not extend to attached or wielded weapons.
  * Pinnacle of Structural Design: Any time you construct a vehicle or other gadget it gains a DR of 4 higher than normal and an additional 50% hit points (round down) applied after all other hit point modifiers have been taken into account (material type, etc.).
  * Juggernaut: You have gained the ability to construct a marvelous machine of destruction. Though the power sources vary (steam, wood/coal, oil, even magic) each juggernaut is a massive land vehicle with a carrying capacity of at least 30 tons (U.S. so 60,000pounds with an effective strength of 23). Juggernauts are often covered in various weapons that passengers can fire (ballistas, catapults, burning pitch, Alchemical bombs, etc.) the swivel mounts allow the passengers to fire the weapons with full skill. The maximum evade and ramming ability of the Juggernaut may limit the skill and agility of the pilot. It is dependent on the vehicle agility listed in the table below (max evade = 11+2*vehicle agility, max bonus to ramming attack d20+2*vehicle agility). The Juggernaut is capable of ramming into objects or creatures with a roll to hit based on the pilot's Pilot land (or sea skill if in water) and agility using the effective strength for base damage. This maneuver may only be done once per round. Against a single target the vehicle needs to accelerate and maneuver properly, and against groups of enemies make one roll to hit and apply it to all creatures in the path of the Juggernauts movement (misses mean the targets dodged aside). Women love this thing. Loggers also love it. The Juggernaut is also seaworthy. A standard supply of fuel can keep a Juggernaut cruising for several days (about a week) or sprinting speed (x3) for about a day. Magic power sources allow for unlimited travelling. The cost to construct such a marvel is 2500 AP which is one quarter of the base market price of 10,000 AP. The Base construction time for the Juggernaut is 6 months. The price of a magic power source for one of these devices could be very high, 1000AP.

Juggernaut Stats

Maximum Length

Engineering Skill*5 feet

Maximum Height & Width

Engineering Skill*2 feet

Max Vehicle Agility

3 + (Engineering Skill/2) (rnd up)

Base Speed

Engineering Skill yards/sec

Effective Strength

13 + Engineering Skill

DR

7 + (Engineering Skill/2) (round down)

HP

10 * Engineering Skill

  *  
  * Dirigible Titanicus: You can construct a massive airship, although most often blimp power keeps the vehicle aloft, and steam/wood/coal/oil are used as common fuels, even mystic engines have been constructed for such vessels (no blimp necessary). While not as resistant to attacks as the ground pounding Juggernaut the Dirigible Titanicus can be quite hardy. The Dirigible Titanicus is capable of hauling at least 60tons aloft (25 effective strength). Smaller variants have been known to exist, as well as hardier variants. Given a mystic/magic power source much sturdier constructions can allow for a higher base DR. A standard supply of fuel can keep a Dirigible Titanicus cruising for several days (about a week) or sprinting for a day. Magic power sources allow for unlimited travelling. Favorable winds can even allow no or very low power consumption. The cost to construct such a marvel is 2500 AP which is one quarter of the base market price of 10,000 AP. The Base construction time for the Dirigible Titanicus is 6 months. The price of a magic power source for one of these devices could be very high, 1000AP.

Dirigible Titanicus Stats

Maximum Length

Engineering Skill*30 feet

Maximum Height & Width

Engineering Skill*10 feet

Max Vehicle Agility

3 + (Engineering Skill/2) (rnd up)

Base Speed

Engineering Skill yards/sec

Effective Strength

15 + Engineering Skill

DR

1 (7 if magic design) + (Engineering Skill/2) (round down)

HP

10 * Engineering Skill

  * Find/Remove Trap/Lock Picking: Finding Traps is Will based (perception), all others are (Agility)
  * EagleEye: Traps are auto-detected no roll is necessary.
  * CatBurgler: You have the ability to bypass any security lock, passing through while leaving no trace.
  * Flight Skill: (Agility) Applies to any creatures etc. with the ability to fly.
  * Windrider: This mastery allows the Windrider to soar optimally on the air currents. This doubles the base travelling speed of the creature (not cumulative with Pilot Air Windrider mastery).
  * Defensive Manuvering: Evading attacks is second nature to those with this mastery while in the air, add +4 to Evade. This bonus is not cumulative with Defensive Maneuvering from Ride Air.
  * Gambling: (Presence averaged with Thought) Can play at betting games. Add to skill roll for specialization.
  * Bluff: In the face of certain doom you can convince your opponents that you have a superior position. Roll Presence + Gambling + d20 vs targets Will + Gambling + 11. Success gives you a one extra free action (Bluff doesn't take an action). This ability can be used in most situations, but only once per round. If there is no opponent available to bluff then the mastery cannot be used, unless the Gambling Master makes a *Crack Trip* difficulty check. “As Ace plummeted off the mountain he made final attempt to curse the very planet and deny gravity allowing him another chance to grasp a nearbye tree root”
  * Glass Blowing: Make glass.
  * Artisan: Make pretty glass. (Buy this skill. You need it. Really. Pretty glass. Oooh.)
  * Glass Sword: You can create a type of glass that will not break and is nigh invulnerable. Only small amounts can be created at a time, but it is enough to create a glass sword which does STR + 4 damage and looks really cool.
  * Herb Lore: (Thought) Can be used simlarly to do first aid similar to the Medical skill. Also gives you a +2 bonus levels to your cooking skill (total not per Herb Lore level).
  * Medicine Man: Can create poisons that do 1 point of damage per round (no damage resistance applicable) for Herb Lore level rounds. Each round a Durability check can be made Difficulty 11+Herb Lore level to stop taking damage.
  * Leather Working: Make leather armor, & other leather goods
  * Masterwork: Automatically crafts masterwork leather armor (+2DR) and items.
  * Lore: Player has comprehensive knowledge in an all areas of lore. He is familiar with: History/War, Magic/Magic Items, Monsters, Religion/Dragon/Djinn, Events
  * Sage: You KNOW. About everything. You can make a lore skill check about any topic to have heard something about it (the GM decides the difficulty), where a secret pirate treasure may be cashed might be a tough difficulty, knowing details about each of the traps and the location layout would be crack trip or higher, but is possible!
  * Medical: (Thought) In addition to basic first aid (heals one damage point to target, only good immediately after they are wounded (within 10 minutes or so)), the Medical professional can do surgery, prescribe medications, get employment at a hospital, use advanced medical equipment, etc.
  * Medico: Specialist gains the ability to graft foreign body parts upon target, in the appropriate area (i.e. a dark-vision eye from an cave crawler into a human eye socket, a claw instead of a hand, a human head on a monkey body, etc).
  * Melee: (Agility) covers unarmed combat or any melee weapon, gain melee parry AGI + Melee Skill Levels + 11 (the character can opt to use his or her evade in melee as it may be higher). Parry can only be used against melee attacks that have a base damage less than 5 higher than the defenders base melee damage. Note that this allows powerful creatures to parry melee attacks (even energy swords) with their hands or claws.
  * Lethal Targeting: Anything is lethal in your hands and other weapons are even more effective, add +3 base damage to any melee weapons damage (including unarmed).
  * Hurled Weapon: Can throw melee weapon 10 + STR yards, using the melee skill for the attack bonus.
  * QuickDraw: Add your melee skill to your initiative in all situations.
  * Weapon Barrier: Lets you attempt to parry an attack (after it penetrates your Evade or base Parry). To parry, make a Hit roll. If your roll is equal to or better than the roll that hit you, you successfully parry. This is a free action once per round; additional parries may be made at the cost of an action each. You can not use Weapon Barrier against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or more than that of the weapon used to parry.
  * Reflexive Deflection: Add +2 deflection against all attacks (both melee and missile).
  * CounterAttack: Allows you to attempt to strike back at an opponnent if their melee attack misses you. Can be used once per round per melee attacker. Roll to Hit with a 2 penalty. This is a free action.
  * Ambidexterity: Allows a character to fight using a weapon in each hand (melee and/or missile), gaining an extra attack (not an extra action) per round. This extra attack is at a 2 penalty to hit. This extra attack is executed simultaneously with one of the character's normal attacks. In fact this extra attack may be used even in situations where only a single action is allowed (ambush or surprise round, preemptive attack given by Danger Sense, etc.)
  * Metal Smithing: (Strength averaged Presence) Can mke tools, kettles, and other metal implements. You can also make armor or weapons.
  * Masterwork: All items you can craft with this skill are masterwork items. Weapons gain +2 to hit, Armors gain +1 DR, Shields gain +2 Deflection.
  * Missile: (Agility) Allows proficiency in all ranged weapons (with the exception of ship based weapons).
  * Lethal Targeting: Anything is lethal in your hands and other weapons are even more effective, add +3 base damage to any missile weapons damage.
  * Quick Shot: Add your missile skill to your initiative in all situations.
  * Gun Kata: Your combat skills in missile weapons have progressed to the level that you ideally place yourself in order to avoid incoming missile and melee attacks equally, Add +2 deflection against all attacks (both melee and missile).
  * Point Defense: Can attempt a counter against any missile attack (even after it would normally penetrate your evade, base parry, or other defense). This may be done once per round for free, additional point defense actions require one action each. You do not have to beat the opponents initiative (defending yourself is a free action). You can declare the point defense after the attack roll is made. You make a hit roll. If your hit roll is equal to or better than your opponents, you deflect the attack. This does take up a missile or ammunition though. The missile must be thrown or fired; you cannot hold a dagger and parry stuff out of the air (thats the Missile Parry mastery for melee). You can not defend against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or more than that of the weapon used for point defense.
  * Ambidexterity: Allows a character to fight using a weapon in each hand (melee and/or missile), gaining an extra attack per round. This extra attack is at a 2 penalty to hit. This extra attack is executed simultaneously with one of the character's normal attacks. In fact this extra attack may be used even in situations where only a single action is allowed (ambush or surprise round, preemptive attack given by Danger Sense, etc.)
  * Blind Shooting: If your vision is impaired or blocked you can still target enemies with no penalty (as long as they have alerted you to their presence in some way, either by attacking or if you made a successful crack trip alertness check).
  * Disarm: If your target is holding a weapon, you can make a roll to hit with a -4 penalty, if you succeed their weapon is disarmed or damaged (your choice, gm determines how bady damaged weapon is).
  * Death Blossom: You can fire a missile attack at every opponent within a your normal range and line of sight providing you have enough ammunition. This requires a full round (not once per action).
  * Musical Instrument: (Presence averaged w/ Agility) Read, play, and make music on an instrument.
  * Calm/Engross: The ability to so involve an audience into listening to your music that they no longer pay attention to what is going on around them while you are playing. Can be done even if the target audience is not listening to you when you start playing. The in game effect is that each listener loses one action per round that you continue actively playing (1 action per round cost).
  * Master Musician: Can play any instrument they pick up.
  * Pilfer: (Agility) Sleight of hand, looting, picking pockets, + 1 bonus per skill level to Alertness checks to spot pilfer.
  * Stage Magician: Can perform impossible acts of sleight of hand, such as removing other peoples clothing unnoticed at a range of 10 feet (standard skill comparison).
  * Pilot Ship, Ride Air, Pilot Kraken: (Agility or Thought) Seamanship, Airmanship, Navigation, Whale Spotting. In addition to being able to help pilot naval vessels and boats, this skill also applies to fantastic air ships both blimp and magic based. This skill also applies to creatures both small and gigantic that are trained to ferry folks across water, deep beneath the sea, or high into the sky.
  * WaveJumper/Windrider: The wavemaster knows how to navigate his ship or mount so that it rides the waves, jumping from one crest to another. In the sky this mastery allows the Windrider to soar optimally on the air currents. This doubles the base travelling speed of the ship or creature.
  * StormMaster: You have the ability to safely guide your ship through any storm. In addition, you know when a storm is coming a day in advance, regardless of whether or not you are at sea.
  * Defensive Maneuvering: The pilots skill in evading attacks gives the vehicle or mount a +4 to Evade. This bonus can go above and beyond the maximum evade of a vehicle/mount.
  * Rope Use, Lassoing, Hog Tying: (Agility)
  * Hard Rope: You can twine cloth or rope so hard with your hands that it acts as a solid metal weapon. It can be used to prop doors and stab opponents (acts as a spear (str+2) damage or str +4 for a large two handed spear).
  * Running: (Durability) This covers the training and skill involved with jogging for more than a few minutes. For each level of running you can double the amount of time you can jog or sprint.
  * Speed of the Fury: Double all land movement rates (walking,jogging, and sprinting).
  * Security Systems: (Will or Agility) The ability to find, neutralize, or bypass securtiy systems or traps. To disable the systems is a roll based on THT or AGI, depending on the kind of system.
  * EagleEye: Security systems are auto-detected no roll is necessary.
  * CatBurgler: You have the ability to bypass any security lock, passing through while leaving no trace.
  * Stealth: (Agility) Hide, Sneak.
  * Ambush: +1 to base damage per level of stealth (melee, missile, magic, or any type of attacks). This comes into play any time the target is surprised and has a base Evade of 11, or that you attack from concealement.
  * BackStab: +1 to hit per level of stealth (melee, missile, magic, or any type of attacks). This comes into play any time the target has another attacker that either attacked this round or is threatening to attack this round on the opposite side of the Backstabber.
  * Stonemason: (Strength) Make stone structures ( if you have plans). Also make stone arrowheads.
  * Masterwork: Can craft masterpiece stonework: +4DR to structures
  * Storytelling: (Presence) The ability to tell good stories, and to entertain an audience, possibly for money.
  * Enthrall: Gain the ability to so engross an audience in your story that you can start ot implant subtle suggestions in their minds. Apply a single storytelling roll of d20 + Storytelling Skill Levels + Influence versus Victims Storytelling Skill Levels + Victims Will is applied to all listeners.
  * Swimming: (Agility averaged with Strength). Character can swim at AGI/2 in yards/sec, for DUR*10 minutes.
  * Aquatikhan: The character has the ability to summon to him several local fish when underwater, although he can not speak to them or command them. The character can swim at his normal movement rates.
  * Trade Skills: Merchants, Dancers, Banker, Electricians, woodcutters, etc.
  * Master: You are good at your trade. You can make enhanced and masterly crafted items.
  * Tactics: Characters with this skill are able to cohesivley direct groups of attackers, increasing their ability and effect. If a character with Tactics is directing an attack or defense, all combatants on the side of the Tactician gain a +3 to all attack rolls and +3 to their initiative. If two tactitions are battling against each other a contest of skills rolls is made Thought +Tactics + d20 vs OpponentsThought + OpponentsTactics + d20.
  * Aura of Command: The strategic master now adds +6 to hit and to the initiative of all allied combatants and is always successful (2 opposing master tacticians give both of their troops +6 to hit and initiative). Also, they may engage in a land war in Asia and win.
  * Legendary General: The leadership of this tactics master is legendary! Enemies quake in fear of their involvement. Troops from opposing forces abandon their posts. Also any organized force that is known to have this tactics master as one of it's generals, gains additional volunteers who flock to their cause. The percentage of troops that abandon the enemy and rally to the tactic's master is X%.
  * Siege Weapon Systems: (Agility) Characters with this skill are able to successfully use ship-based weapons or large siege weapons.
  * Quick Shot: +1 to Initiative for each weapon systems level (cumulative with other initiative boosters, missile and melee mastery (quickshot and quickdraw respectively).
  * Point Defense: Can attempt a counter against any missile attack. This may be done once per round for free. You do not have to beat the opponents initiative (defending your ship is a free action). You can declare the point defense after the attack roll is made (so you save this for when something you want to defend is hit including you). You make a hit roll; if your hit roll is equal to or better than your opponents, you deflect the attack. This does take up ammunition though. You can not defend against attacks that have a base damage of 5 or higher than that of the base damage of the weapon used for point defense. Using this mastery requires access to a weapon system or siege weapon.
  * Wood Working: (Agility) Make figures, toys, wooden weapons. Can make a living as a carpenter.
  * Carver: Can craft masterpiece wooden items like the slave elves do for Santa, complete with decorative carvings. ( i.e. masterwork quarterstaffs +2 to hit, elaborate furnitue, masterwork wooden armor for tree huggers +2DR, etc).

#  Game Rules

##  Basics of The Victus Gaming System

###  Experience Points

####  How Much XP Should Be Given

GMs should give out 10xp (standard game) to 15+xp (extraordinary game) per
game session, depending on how much was accomplished. NPCs (Non-player
characters, such as hirelings and companions to the PCs) get 5 XP per game.

####  Spending XP

In general, to raise an attribute, skill, or magic skill to the next level, it
costs the value of the next level in XP. For example, raising a 3 to a 4 costs
4 xp.

Every level must be purchased; you can not raise a 2 to a 4 without buying
level 3 first. Attributes can be raised to 10 in this manner for normal
humans. Powers and special abilities may give bonus levels that can ride on
top of this limit (10 base + total bonuses). When raising an attribute or
skill with a bonus you pay only for raising the base value (not the bonus
value).

Raising Grit or a Legendary Power is more expensive - it costs twice the next
level in XP. So, to raise a power from 4 to 5, it will cost 10XP.

###  Attributes, Powers, and Skills

Attributes: Basic inherent character abilities.

Powers: Reality bending abilities gained through Legendary backgrounds.

Sub-Powers: Minor supernatural powers or expert training/talent that help
customize your Legend.

Skills: Learned abilities.

####  How to Make Power Checks

Power + d20 vs. ATT + SKILL + 11

####  How to Make Skill Checks

Having a skill at Level 1 means that you are a novice in that skill. (In the
case of trade skills, such as smithing, this means that you can hold down a
very basic job performing that action). Skill level 4-6 means that you are a
skilled professional. Skill levels 7-9 are experts and skill levels 10+ are
masters of their trade.

In game terms, this means that you get a +1 to a roll for every level you have
in a skill. (In other words, your bonus is equal to your skill leve). Example:
Say your character has the smithing skill at level 3. This means that you have
a +3 bonus to every smithing roll you make. All skills are associated with an
attribute to determine a roll. This attribute is not always fixed; different
situations call for different attributes. The GM will decide what is
appropriate in a given situation. Example: Stealth can be used to sneak around
and is paired with AGI.

Rolls are made in the following manner:

d20+ATT+SKL

where ATT is the appropriate attribute (STR, AGI, DUR, THT, WIL, PRS) and
skill is the level of skill being used. Resistance values are static and are
ATT+SKL+11. Note that in the case noticing a sneaking character, the observer
may roll a d20 + Alertness Skill Levels + WIL versus a static stealth number
of AGI + Stealth Skill Levels + 11.

Advancing a skill after the game starts is more expensive than buying it up
with the starting skill points. Using XP points to raise a skill works in the
following way:

  * To learn a new skill it costs 1 xp (normal skills).
  * To advance (specialize) a skill, it costs the next level in XP.(i.e. to raise a skill to level 2, it costs 2 points. To raise it from 2 to 3, it costs 3 points).
  * Each level must be paid for. (You can not raise a skill from a 2 to a 4 without first paying for 3).

Skill checks are made using the appropriate stat, as described above.
Unskilled attempts have a penalty of 2 to the roll, and may sometimes not be
available(NU is used to denote skills that may not be rolled for unskilled,
NU=not unskilled). When a check is required the target rolls d20. A roll of a
1 is an automatic failure unless the character is a master of the skill (level
10+), effects up to game master. Target #'s requiring a roll of higher than 20
are possible. A roll of 20 is an automatic success except in the case of a
crack trip difficulty (in which case you roll again and add on and compare to
the difficulty number).

Skill /Action Check

Difficulty Number

Easy

8

Sub-Par

14

Average

18

Tough

22

Very Difficult

26

Damn-Near Impossible

30

Crack-Trip (Need skill 10+ to attempt)

34+

For example, Bob Rica wants to leap off a moving wagon traveling at 10 yards
per second and grab onto a cart during an ice storm, open the passenger flap
and sit down before his hair gets wet. This is damn near impossible. So Bob
takes his agility 5 and because he’s skilled in acrobatics (level 2) there’s
no penalty to succeed. Bob has to roll a 20 (that maneuver sounds like it’s
damn near impossible, gm’s determine difficulties) or higher to tie/make the
target number of 30. Bob decides this is just too tough, so instead he decides
to just leap on top of the cart (that’s still average target number of 18) so the
roll necessary is now a 11 ( 7 + d20 target number 18) or better. Suppose Bob
was specialized with 4 extra skill levels in acrobatics (now level 6), this
has a strong effect on his odds of making the leap now the total is 5 agility
+ 6 skill + d20 so he’d need a roll of 7 . If Bob weren’t skilled in
acrobatics at all he’d need a 15 (5 agility - 2 unskilled penalty + d20 target
# 18).

As an example suppose Bob Rica wanted to pull off his belt, swing it around
the back of the cart, and water ski on the dirt road behind the cart after
leaping from the wagon, all while brushing his teeth and getting a full nights
rest. The difficulty level would be Crack-Trip (34). In addition if Bob
weren’t skilled in both rope use and skiing he’d incur an additional 2 penalty
(total). Let’s assume Bob doesn’t have either skill, which means he can't even
attempt a maneuver this difficult as you'd need to be a master in all required
skills to even try to succeed at such a ludicrous move. Ok for the sake of
argument lets bump Bob's Acrobatics (we'll let that count for water skiing)
and rope use to level 10 and with his 5 agility he’d need a roll of 19 ( 5 +
10, target # 34) or better but remember a roll of 20 is an automatic success.
Very powerful legends can do this sort of thing much more successfully, for
they have fantastic journeys to learn new skills and master old ones.

##  Combat

Combat is fast and vicious in the Victus Game system. Rounds are 1 second
long, which means that many battles are over in just a few seconds; it doesnt
take that long to have a sword thrust through you. Closely matched skill and
offensive/defensive abilities combats can take much longer.

An action is either a movement or attack although once per round your
character may move their normal movement, and take an attack by using a single
action.

Characters can use all of their actions in a round. The number of actions that
a character can take is determined by the characters AGI, dividing it by 4,
and rounding down. Special abilities and powers may add to this total. A
character takes all of his actions on his initiative, which is determined by
rolling a d20 and adding it to a characters THT. Alternatively they may hold
one action as an interrupt triggered by another event, “I blaze away with my
harpoon gun at the first target through the door”. Or they may delay all their
actions until after an event happens, “I delay my initiative until the first
guy comes into the room”.

###  Attacking

An attack succeeds if the attackers HIT value is equal to or greater than the
opposing characters TARGET value (which can be determined by their EVADE or
PARRY value, depending on what they choose to do). The HIT value is determined
by:

Agi + SKL + d20

SKL refers to the Skill level (usually melee or missile, in the case of
combat). If the character doesnt have an appropriate skill, then they have a
penalty of 2 to the roll (giving them Agi + d20 - 2). If a character isnt
caught unawares, and tries to dodge the enemy's attack (default), their EVADE
value is what determines the target difficulty number for the attack. The
EVADE value of the target is determined by the following:

Agi + SKL + 11

In this particular case, the SKL level used would be based on the Acrobatica
skill. If the character is trying to parry (which can only be done against a
melee attack), the skill is Melee. Note that Melee parry can only be done if
the weapon damage of the attacking weapon is less than 5 greater than the
weapon damage of the parrying weapon. Finally shields, some items, and skill
masteries add a Deflection bonus that is added to both parry and evade
(defends against both melee and missile).

For vehicle combat the attack SKL is usually Weapon Systems for larger
weapons, small (Heavy Rifles or lighter) turret mounted weapons are fired
using Missile skill. The defense SKL is the appropriate piloting skill. Note
that the attack totals (Agi + SKL = HIT) and the defense bonus (Agi + SKL) are
limited by the vehicle agility. The max evade is equal to 11 + vehicle agility
(certain masteries can go beyond this limit). So for a vehicle with an 8
vehicle agility, the best evade possible is an 11 + 8 = 19, and the best
attack bonus with any hull mounted weapons on this vehicle is +8. Turret
mounted weapon systems are only limited by the skill and agility of the
gunnery but take up double the space. Note that the upper limit on vehicle
agility is around 28. Take a (10 base + 4 mastery) x 2 = 28. Characters with
skills and abilities that surpass these levels find themselves hampered by
technology.

If the target is surprised, then the TARGET number is the default base of 11.
Remember a roll of a 1 is an automatic miss/failure. Only one surprise attack
is made (not all of the characters actions), then initiative and normal combat
rules/evades apply. If the HIT number is greater than or equal to the TARGET
number, a hit is scored. If the HIT number exceeds the TARGET number by two or
more, a SUCCESS is gained for every 2 points (rounded down) the TARGET number
is exceeded by. Damage from a successful attack is determined by the
following:

Base Damage + # Successes - DR Target

The Base Damage for melee or thrown weapons is Str Attacker + weapon bonus.
The Base Damage for other weapons is listed in the weapons table in the
equipment section. The maximum damage any attack may do is the base times two.
For example a powerful human with Str = 10 wielding a Two-Handed sword (Str+4
damage) has a base damage of 14, and a maximum damage of 28.

A critical hit is scored if the attacker rolls a 20. The attacker may roll
another d20 and add that to their to hit roll (only one additional roll
maximum, not open ended), therebye increasing their number of successes and damage
done, but they are still limited to 2X the Base Damage maximum. This attack is
considered an automatic hit and always causes at least 1 point of damage per
weapon past any DR the target has (although rapid fire weapons can be fired
full auto for d6 attacks in lieu of normal actions, the minimum damage from a
critical hit from such a burst is still only 1 point NOT d6 points, although
for a battery of 4 of such weapons it'd be 4 points of damage).

Underwater or foriegn environment gives attackers a -4 to hit roll, and -4 to
base damage.

###  DR Damage Resistance

Damage can be absorbed by DR (which stands for Damage Resistance). Characters
may have DR to two types of damage in Legends, Physical and Mental.

Magical items that have bonuses to Armor or DR apply their DR to both Physical
and Mental attacks that cause damage.

Every character gets a base DR determined by their appropriate Attribute/3
(rounded down). This is their base DR and is applied to all attacks. Physical
attacks use Durability to calculate this base number, mental attacks like Mind
Scythe (Spirit Lvl 2) use the Will stat to determine DR. In addition to the
base DR, characters may have additional DR from other areas (skin, armor,
field, etc.). Unless otherwise noted, skin DR stacks, while armor and any
other DR does not. Also note that spells that boost skin DR from the same
element do not stack (i.e. Lesser Obsidian Sheath doesn't stack with Obsidian
Sheath).

For example, a Legend with Durability 9, thick skinned (+2 skin DR), Dark
Pact: Fury (+2 skin DR), Divine Power: Holy Aura (+2 skin DR), Ice Armor (4
Armor DR), Dense Air 2 (cast at 4th lvl for 4 Armor DR), Earth Armor (2 Armor
DR), & Lesser Obsidian Sheath (+2 skin DR)

DR Type

Base DR

Bonuses

Total

Body/Skin

3 (9 Durability)

Thick Skinned +2, Fury +2, Holy Aura +2, Lesser Obsidian Sheath +2

11

Armor

4 (Dense Air 2 or Ice Armor are both superior to Earth Armor)

0

4

This Legends has a total DR of 15 against physical attacks making him nearly
impervious to most physical attacks that inflict less than 8 damage (critical
hits always deal 1 point of damage).

Now this same Legend's Mental DR is given by his Will 8, Dark Pact: Fury (+2
Mental DR), Divine Power: Holy Aura (+2 Mental DR)

DR Type

Base DR

Bonuses

Total

Body/Skin

2 (8 Will)

Fury +2, Holy Aura +2

6

Armor

0 (No mental armor)

0

0

With a Mental DR 6 even this juggernaut Legend has to fear mental attacks as
they can quickly overwhelm his defenses.

Drowning or suffocation damage is d6 per round bypassing all DR. Falling
damage is 1 point per 10ft fallen, maximized at 20 points for terminal
velocity.

###  Effects of Damage

When a character is damaged to 0 hit points or lower they are normally
unconscious. When a character is damaged past their negative Durability they
are normally dead (i.e. if a target had a 4 Durability is is damaged to -5 HP
or lower, they are dead). Certain powers may modify these levels.

When a Vehicle or Automaton (Golem) is damaged to 0 hit points or lower they
are made inoperable and lose functionality. When the Vehicle or Automaton is
damaged past it's maximum hitpoints it is utterly annhilated (i.e. if a Golem
with 24 maximum hit points is damaged to -25HP or lower it is annhilated,
simple repair won't work it'll need to be rebuilt from scratch).

###  Grapple Rules

An attacker can attempt to grapple a single opponent effectively grabbing them
and holding them in place. With a single action first roll to hit the target,
if successful now roll an opposed strength check: d20 + Attackers Effective
Strength vs. Targets Effective Strength + 11. Vehicles that dont have strength
can be grappled as well, although an effective strength must be determined. If
the roll succeeds the object or being is grappled and has their evade reduced
to the minimum of 11, in addition they may only make restricted movements
giving them a -10 modifier to attacks/skill checks. The grapple continues
until the target successfully breaks free (they can attempt to break free once
per action without the 10 penalty), the grappler must use all their actions to
hold the grapple. After the grapple has been successfully applied the grappler
may squeeze the target once per round for double their strength in damage.

###  Legend Points

These are what separate vicious mercenaries and book-bound mages from the
Legends. For those familiar with cinematic actoin films, these are the slow
motion, “Holy Crap!” moments. All characters start with one Legend Point, and
may gain them in game from accomplishing important goals or doing amazing
things. Legend Points may be spent on any action (offensive, defensive, etc).
The effects are wonderous, and should be described in detail by the game
master of player. An example of blowing a legend point might be the following:

  * Saving a character/the party’s life from a lethal attack, this also protects the character for the entire round they spend the Legend point and should likely remove them from an ongoing death situation (i.e. swimming in lava, somehow they get out; being crushed and drowned in a devious trip, they miraculously escape). The more bizzare and entertaining the Legend point description the better.
  * Convincing a king to go off rampaging on a crusade against his beloved and only son.
  * Shouting with such force that you shatter the heads of the harpy tribe that were about to

scream and devour you.

  * Creating a work of art the likes of which the world has never seen.

Keeping that in mind, there are a few rules for situations where Legend Points
are used. In combat, for example, blowing a Legend Point gives you the
following:

  * +10 to hit and base damage for an an entire round of actions
  * 1 free round of actions when the Legend Point is blown.

Legend Points are amazing things. If used carefully, they can make a Legends
campaign a truly fantastic story. If used in overabundance, they make the game
ridiculous. The hardest part for the GM will be in deciding when to give them
out. If you don’t give out enough, the game gets slow and/or overly lethal. If
you give out too much, the game gets crazy, and the points become devalued.
However, once you give them out, they belong to the players, to use when they
will. If a player chooses to use a Legend Point, accept it. It shows that the
player really cares about the outcome at that point. Do not make it so that
players will never spend Legend Points; likewise, do not make it so that it is
preferable to spend Legend Points to taking any little bit of damage or
inconvenience in the game. Legend points should be cherished things that give
the game that extra touch of wonder, making it that much better to play.

###  Combat Movement

A target can move its normal base move (agility) in yards/second and attack
normally with a melee, missile weapon, spell, etc. A target can move its
normal jog move (agility) in yards/second. Sprinting (1.5x normal movement)
can only be done for 5xDUR in seconds; jogging can be done for 5XDUR in
minutes (although the running skill can extend this time). Walking speed is
half agility and can be maintained indefinitely. During comat, a character can
move at his normal movement speed at the cost of one action (either walking,
jogging or sprinting).

Movement occurs in initiative order unless the initiative winner forces his
opponents to move first (usually a good idea unless your racing for a doorway
etc.) and occurs before attacks.

#  Money & Equipment

##  Money

Iron Piece(ip) = today’s $.1

Copper Piece (cp) = today’s $1

Silver Piece(sp) = today’s $10

Gold Piece(gp) = today’s $100

Adamantite Piece(ap) = today’s $1,000

Quality Modifier:

The descriptive qualities are

Crappy: with a 1/3 cost multiplier

Standard with a times 1 multiplier

Good with a times 3 multiplier and

Fine with a times 10 multiplier

Master Piece with a times 100 multiplier

They may be applied to most items. No weapon or armor modifiers are given
unless the item is a masterpiece. In order to make a masterpiece simpl

y apply skill crafting masteries to any created objects, no additional time or
materials are needed.

##  Equipment

Note about transport vehicles: Vehicles and Golems generally have a HP rating.
When a vehicle is reduced to zero hitpoints it is no longer functional. When
HP are reduced past the negative starting HP of a vehicle it is completely
annhilated.

Generic Equipment

Dragons Blood: Pint: 1 ap

Grappling Hook: Price: 3 sp

Rope: Negates no rope penalty ( without a rope a –2 modifier is applied to the
climbing check) Price: 1 sp / 50ft

Climbing Spikes: These are attached to the hands and feet to get a better grip
on things; +2 to climbing checks: 2 sp

Back Pack/Sling Sack: Price: 15 cp

Eli Sacks: Price: 2 sp (huge sacks with a small face sewn on)

Clothing: Breeches/Shirt: 1 sp

Boots: 1 sp

Traveling Cloak/Robe: 1 sp

Lantern: 25 cp

Flask of oil: 1 cp

Flint & Steel: 5 ip

Harsh Whiskey: 1 cp

Keg of Cider/Ale: 5 cp

Paper: 1 cp

Chalk: 10/ip

Slate Board: 5sp

Candle: 5 / cp

Soap: 1cp

Deck of Cards: 1sp

Glass Bottle: 1sp

Wineskin: 1sp

Mug: 1cp

Corrective Glasses: 4 gp

Lock: 15cp

Covered Wagon: 4gp

Cart Wheel: 3sp

Cart: 15 sp

Axle: 5sp

Rations: 4sp/week

Smokes: Rolling leaves 1cp /20, tobacco 1 sp/lb

Pipe 5cp

Standard Prices:

One night’s stay at an inn: 2 sp

A meal: 1 sp

Single day’s coach ride: 2 sp (includes some protection)

Single day’s ship ride: 2 sp (includes some protection)

Animals/Hirelings: (Quality on these purchases can greatly affect their
skills/attributes)

Ox: 1gp

Horse: 4 gp

Mule: 7sp

Giant Cockroach (trained): 4ap

Servant: 1 sp / day

Wagon Driver: 2 sp / day

Bodyguard: 2 sp / day

Cook: 2 sp /day

Archer: 6 sp /day

Blacksmith: 1 gp / day + materials (1/2 of the price of the item made)

Weapons:

Special materials may be used for masterpiece weapons,

The cost can be great ( cost multiplier * 100) but the effect can be well
worth it, see the effects of Crafting Masteries.

Arrows:

  * 10 / 3 cp wooden (Strength +1 dam)
  * 10 / 1 sp metal tipped (Strength + 2 dam)

Bullets: 1 sp for 10 bullets (Strength +1 dam)

Bolts: Price: 2,4,6,8 and 10 sp for 10 bolts (damage based on xbow)

Bastard Sword: 3gp (Strength +2 dam (one handed)/+3 dam (two handed). Can be
wielded one or two handed)

Battle Axe: 3gp (Strength +2 one handed)

Bow: 2gp, Range 200yrds+10yrds/strength, Bow's are purchased with a base range
of 4 STR (a character can get full damage and range for STR from 4-8 or 5-9 or
16-20. Masterwork bows have a strength range of 8 (full damage and range for
STR 4-12 or 8-16). Magical bows work optimally for any strength. Certain
extreme STR bows may require special materials and higher costs (up to GM).

Bow string: 4 / sp

Black Jack: 2 sp (Str + 2 dam) counts as stun damage

Claymore: 6 gp (Str + 4 dam) Minimum strength (6)

Crossbows: (reloading takes one action) Both spring and Iron bow types are
commonly used. The spring types use a small amount of adamantium.

Type

Effective Damage

Minimum Strength Required

Price

Range

Miniature

8

1

2gp

80yrds

Light

8

2

1gp

130yrds

Heavy

10

4

7gp

150yrds

Mini-Ballista

12

6

2ap

160yrds

Repeating variants may be designed and constructed but not normally for sale.
Building them requires an engineering check, difficulty = 11 + Xbow damage. If
successfully built, repeating xbows allow six shots without the need to
replace bolt clips (one action).

Dagger: 1gp (Str dam)

Staff: 5sp (Str + 2 dam) two-handed

Sword: 2 gp (Str + 2 dam) Minimum strength (4)

(Str +2 dam for single-handed use, Str + 4 dam for two-handed variants)

Lance: 2 sp (wooden with metal tip- single use, or steel- multi-use) on foot
Str +2 dam but can only be used in a charge mounted for Str + 8 dam. When
charging on a mount, make a riding check. Every point above 18 is a plus 1 to
hit. Every point below 14 is minus 1 to hit. Lance wielders always have a –4
parry penalty (huge burdensome weapon)

Armor: damage resistance adds to toughness when an attack or physical spell
has landed.

Leather: + 2 DR (damage resistance) 2gp

Chain, Ring, or Scale mail: + 4 DR 2ap

Plate: +6 DR 5ap

Small Shield: Buckler sized shield, allows objects to be held in shield hand.
Gives a base of +1 to deflection Wooden 4 sp, Metal 1 gp

Large Shield: Large shield is all that can be held in shield hand. Gives a
base of +2 to deflection Wooden 4 sp, Metal 2 gp

Sling: 1 sp (stones may be used with a –1 damage modifier), Range
10yrds+10yrds/strength

All armors (aside from leather) give a penalty of their DR to stealth checks.

Metal armors also give a penalty of their DR – ½ character strength (rounded
down, but not negative) to movement.

##  Magic Items

Magic variants of most normal weapons and armor can be found, the rarest
giving +3 bonus to DR or to hit and damage. Rings, amulets, belts, boots, etc.
may be found that boost a specific attribute, with an upper bound on the
rarest items being +3. Magic items that boost the same ability or attribute
aren't cumulative, apply only the highest bonus. Note that almost all magic
items are also masterwork and the bonuses are cumulative. So +2 to hit for a
weapon from masterwork + magic bonus to hit and damage, or for armor +1 DR
masterwork, + magic bonus to DR (magic armor bonus DR counts vs. physical and
mental).

Greater Magic Tome: These mystic texts allow would be apprentices to learn a
new area of magic (like a bonus sub-power!) for which the book was crafted or
to gain +1 base skill level (as if raised with xp) to an existing school of
magic.

Libram of Power: Ancient texts that once read are consumed in the magical
process of granting the reader one additional sub-power permanently. Libram's
may be tailored for a specific sub-power or may be universal and allow the
reader to choose a new sub-power. The effect of the Libram's of Power may also
be gained by discovering and using places of power (statues, pools, etc.) that
may be used once per individual. These are usually rare places of power that
are well guarded by powerful beings.

Bell Of Knockout: Can be used 3 times per day. Acts as spell of same name.
Effects one target.

Choker of Regeneration: This odd spiked neck brace grants the wearer
regeneration +1 hit point per round and unless the choker is removed after
death, it will even revive them (start at their negative DUR they can't be
injured lowered than this level while wearing the choker). The choker must be
specifically removed from the target which takes d6 rounds, if simply chopped
off the regenerative action isn't stopped. “Quick, chop off Archer Daniel
Midlands head and throw it in a bag while G-Force Henchmon holds off the
dragonmen!”

Napkin of Edible Rock: Must wrap a rock in it. Works 3 times per day.

Dark Cape of Stealth: +2 Agility, and +2 additional bonus to stealth checks.
Variants have been known to exist with bonuses ranging from +1 up to +3.

Books of Correspondence: Comes With a d2 + 1 set. Using these books, one may
send written messages to the other book holders by writing in their own book.

Miracle Pill: One Use: Raises Dead and/or grants Heal spell. Lowered Stats and
Time are negated.

Boots of Hover: The boots act as the Air:Hover spell, but also grant full
movement rate. Wearer may cancel effect at will.

Boots of Burning: Same as Boots of Hover, but, every time they are activated
wearer rolls a d6. On a 1, they burn the wearer doing 2d6 damage - (skin DR +
Durability DR). “Ow, Hotfoot.” Milos, Apprentice to Tenschall.

Ashes of Ashes: As fire spell Ashes (caster level 9). One use only.

Silver Tounge of Granorth: Must cut out own tongue an replace it with item.
Grants +3 to presence. Also gives heightened sense of taste. Automagically
negating any ingested poison.

Whetstone of Shmeel: usable once per day. Grants +2 to hit/dam for 10 rounds
up to once per day. Also, it upkeeps weapons. This function may be used
multiple times per day. There is a one in six chance that the Whetstone may
restore a broken or rusted weapon. This may only be attempted once per weapon.
Could possibly fix broken magic weapons.

Spectacles of the Lecherous Cheat: Allow wearer to see through cards, +1/2
inch through soft or weak material. e.g.: clothes.

Third Eye of Spatial Sense: Headband with eye like gem placed at the forehead.
Gives constant panoramic vision. Gives +2 bonus level to Alertness Skill.

Third Eye of Super sense: Grants Panoramic Vision Alertness mastery effect,
but can see through walls as well. Automatically detect invisibility objects
and illusions unless they take tactile effects in account. Also gives +3 bonus
levels to Alertness Skill.

Hat of Cursed Hat Hand: This normal appearing hat or headband once adorned
summons from the nether planes a cursed dark puny hat hand. Gain the Hat
Handed sub-power (or an additional hat hand if you already have the power).
But once per adventure (time chosen by the GM) the hat hand will annoy and
distract you for d6 rounds giving you a -6 to any skill checks
(melee/acrobatica/missile,etc.) made during that period. The hat hand may be
severed or even burned off in daylight but it will always regrow the next
round. The only known method of removing the Cursed Hat Hand is to find an
appropriately prepared magical hat that can temporarily contain the evil
(Mages with All magic level 7 or higher can prepare such a hat).

Cursed Scimitar of Adiok: This weapon once wielded may not be put down or
removed effectively locking up one hand permanently. The only known method of
removing the cursed sword is to chop off the front left leg of a dragon or
dragonlike creature (summoned creatures do satisfy the curse) then it may be
dropped. Other than always being wielded the sword gives no magical or
masterwork bonus and acts as a normal sword dealing STR+2 damage in melee. The
great Rhump-wool Steelskin grew so accustomed to the blade that he was able to
hover and fly short distances by helicoptering the blade over his head (any
melee master may attempt this with a flat blade sized object by making a
Crack-Trip difficulty melee skill check).

###  Wands:

 Wand spells are cast at one plus the level required to cast the spell. Any
character may use a wand, but mages who have access to the area(s) (not
necessarily the level) of the wand spell get a +1 to hit.

 Category 1 Wand: 4d6 charges: Roll a d6:

 1: Hover

 2: Fire Bolt

 3: Sense Magic

 4: Son of Bitch

 5: Protection from Fire/Lightning

 6: Ice Armor

 Category 2 Wand: 2d6 charges: Roll a d6:

 1: Fireball

 2: Lightning Bolt

 3: Lightning Strike

 4: Viscosity

 5: 3xClose Wounds spell (3x the power of the spell)

 6: Invisibility (chioce)

 Category 3 Wand: 1d6 charges: Roll a d6:

 1: Dense Air 2

 2: Infernal Power

 3: Portal

 4: Transmogrify

 5: Action + Reflexes

 6: Heal

#  Monsters

Monster movements listed are their jogging speed. Their walking rate is half
this, their sprinting rate is 1.5 times this. Many monsters have inherent DR
due to their sometimes supernatural toughness and this value is added into
their base DR.

* * *

Pseudo Table Guideline for monsters/Soft Caps. Only some of the most
mythically powerful creatures will go beyond Level 5. In this category is
Elder Dragons and Gods.

Level

Max Attribute

Max Skill

Total Attributes

Special Attacks(mimic Legendary power/spell)

Special Abilities (mimic legendary power)

1

7

8

33

-

-

2

12

8

42

2

2

3

16

10

54

4

4

4

20

14

80

6

6

5

24

16

100

10

10

6

28

18

120

12

12

7

32

20

140

14

14

8

36

22

160

16

16

9

40

24

180

18

18

10

44

26

200

20

20

As far as special abilities go, use powers appropriate for that monster level
(save the most impressive special abilities for level 5+ monsters).

* * *

Elementals: (Lvl 1-5) These animated pure elemental forces may originate from
their home planes (the planes of Fire, Earth, Air and Water). They may appear
as humanoids or any other physical manifestation they choose. Larger
elementals are more powerful (+3 to attributes, +2 to all skills, +1 to
monster level, resistance to magic/supernatural Will + 11 (see resistance to
arcane subpower), and +4 DR per size/level.

Elemental Level:

Size

Elemental Weapon Base Damage

Bonus Skin DR

Grit

1

2ft

+2

-

0

2

6ft

+4

-

1

3

10ft

+6

2

2

4

20ft

+8

4

4

5

40ft

+10

8

5

Elementals may develop varied interests so each of them may have one or more
other skills at the an appropriate level chosen by the GM. Elementals have a
blast attack that may be done instead of its normal attacks with a base damage
equal to their melee base damage (use missile skill). Once per round in lieu
of standard attacks they may also blast an area with elemental damage (Fire,
Rocks, Lightning, Ice) in a 20foot radius. Once masteries become available
(level 10+ skill Elementals usually take the masteries listed in order).

Movement powers:

  * Earth elementals may tunnel at their standard movement rate through any rock or stone, as well as leaving no tunnel behind if they so wish.
  * Water may swim at double their normal speed.
  * Air elementals may fly at double their normal land speed.
  * Fire may teleport at double their normal land sprint speed (in distance) once per action.

Attributes for Size 1

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

6

6

1

1

1

Skills (all)

Melee,Missile,Alertness,Acrobatica,Climbing,Swimming,Flight,+1 miscellaneous:6

Masteries (all)

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun
Kata)

Masteries (all)

Alertness (Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense), Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal
Movement)

Masteries (fire)

Masteries (water)

Swimming (Aquaman)

Masteries (air)

Flight (Defensive Maneuvering,Windrider)

Masteries (earth)

Climbing (SpiderClimb)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

12/12

23/23(possibly +4 from masteries)

Str+Elemental Weapon(possibly +3 Lethal Targeting

1+

6+/DUR*(Grit+1)

Single target blast, or AOE

Sustained,Form Shape (may select any form for equivelant size)

6+(12+ flight)

* * *

Giant Cockroach: (Lvl 2) Big ass Cockroach ( 5-6 feet long, 3 feet high and 2
feet wide). Giant Cockroaches may eat anything for nourishment but they
certainly aren’t motivated for evil intent, in fact some of these strange
creatures have been trained and are great workers.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

8

8

1

1

0

Skills

Melee:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

16

27/19

12

2

2Dur+6Skin=8/16

-

Heightened Senses + 5

4

* * *

Giant Pigeon: (Lvl 1) Giant pigeons are very friendly, but they are easily
offended ( though they don’t often hold grudges). A bucket of worms is usually
enough to buy their friendship ( & possibly a fun flight), though they are
extremely loyal to their masters. Giant pigeons can wear leather armor and
still fly. They attack with their beak. “Bakaaaaawh!”

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

1

1

2

Skills

Melee:2, Acrobatica: 2, Pilot Air: 8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

10

19/19

8

2

2Dur/8

-

-

8(16 air)

* * *

Peck: (Lvl 1) The foulest of foul critters. These midget smoke skinned
humanoids reside on roofs and castle walls (much like vermin). They breed
incredibly fast and are impishly evil. They are intelligent and can even speak
the common language although they rarely listen to other humanoids.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

8

8

3

4

1

Skills

Stealth,Climbing,Swimming,Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

12

23/23

8+Weapon

2

2Dur+Armor/8

-

Night Vision,Poison Resistance +4 (to Durability tests)

8

* * *

Ogres: (Lvl 2) These 7-8 feet tall humanoids are nearly full giants and are
nearly as dangerous. Their powerful strength and durability make them
ferocious warriors. A wise saying about them is, “don’t piss an ogre off if
you aren’t fond of pain”. Ogre's can wield large sized weapons that do their
equivelant normal sized weapon damage + 1.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12

6

12

2

2

2

Skills

Melee:6,Missile:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

12/10

23/21

12+Weapon

1

4Dur+2Skin+Armor/24

-

-

6

* * *

Trolls: (Lvl 3) Vicious green regenerating monstrosities that stand 9 feet
tall. They are not very intelligent but have incredible senses of smell and
can easily hunt and track their prey with this sense. Troll's can wield large
sized weapons that do their equivelant normal sized weapon damage + 2.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

16

2

6

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8, Missile:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16

27/27

16 or 14+Weapon

2

5Dur+4Skin/48

-

Regeneration:5hp/rnd

8

* * *

Demonling: (Lvl 2) These are the lowest of the shadowy creatures that reside
in a dimension parallel to the land of legends. They are for the most part
evil (although many may be simply selfish) but subservient to their masters.
These winged humanoids stand between 6 and 7 feet tall, are lightly covered
with red scales, spiked horns and boney ridges and are decently muscled. Horns
may appear at the elbows or head or shoulders depending on their lineage.
Their weapon of choice is a whicked looking two-handed sword.

Once per round instead of making their normal attacks Demonlings may launch a
single fire bolt at a target, Base Damage:10, Range:200yards.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

10

4

8

4

Skills

Climbing,Swimming,Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Pilot Air:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

14

25/25

12

2

3Dur+5Skin=8/20

-

-

8(16 Air)

* * *

Paladin: (Lvl 2) These are humanoids that have dedicated their lives to
removing the land of legends from evil and corruption. The are adorned with
shining full plate armor and wicked two handed swords or warhammers and
shields. Often times are associated with warhorses their favorite mount of
choice.

Once per round instead of making their normal attacks they may focus their
powers on healing one target for, d6+WIL, Range:touch

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

10

8

4

8

4

Skills

Climbing,Swimming,Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Riding Land:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

16

27/27

12

2

2Dur+6Plate=8/16

-

-

10

* * *

Giants: (Lvl 4) These are massive humanoids of legend. They stand 12+ feet
tall and have powerful builds. They are rarely seen among the human lands and
travel in small groups when necessary.

  * Ice Giants
  * Fire Giants
  * Forest Giants
  * Rock Giants

Giant's Elemental attacks consist of a cone missile blast of their type: Ice,
Fire, Trees, Rocks respectively. The base damage is equal to the Giants
strength + 4. They may only do this powerful attack 5 times per day, and doing
so takes up their full round of actions (may move and breath attack, but not
make other attacks/actions). The area of effect is a cone reaching out 60 feet
from the giant, and 40feet wide at its maximum. Giant's elemental immunity is
complete immunity to their element type: Ice, Fire, - ,
Earth/Stone(Magic/Weapons). Forest Giants don't have a specific immunity per
se, but they do have incredible healing abilities and regenerate 5hp per round
and per action spent concentrated on healing.

Giant weapons do the equivelant damage for normal sized weapons +4 (giant two
handed sword is Str+8).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

12

16

6

10

8

Skills

Alertness,Acrobatica:8,Running:10,Melee:14,Missile:10 (Quickshot)

Masteries

Melee(Reflexive Deflection,Lethal Targeting),Missile(QuickShot)

Masteries

Running(Speed of Fury)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

16

26/22

43/35

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee)/16+Weapon

2

5Dur+8Skin+Armor/80

Elemental Attack: Dam 20 (missile)

Immune to Element Type

16

* * *

Dragons: (Lvl 5+) Vicious in the extreme, these winged, arm like fore clawed
and legged lizards can wreak havoc on a good-sized army. An elder dragon would
eat the same army for breakfast. Although their base color remains constants,
their scale color can vary with moods. Almost all are intelligent and some
even have spell casting abilities (designated by the game master). When reared
on their hind legs an age 1 dragon stands over 12 feet tall at it's head
(these are the most common type). Elder dragons can be much, much larger.
Rumors say they are over 200 feet long. Larger dragons are more powerful (+3
to attributes, +1 to all skills, +1 to monster level, Resistance to Arcane
Will+11, and +4 DR per size larger than 1).

Dragon Age:

Size

Claw Base Damage

Bite Base Damage

Skin DR

1

12ft

+2

+4

12

2

18ft

+3

+5

16

3

40ft

+4

+6

20

4

60ft

+5

+7

24

5

90ft

+6

+8

28

6

120ft

+7

+9

32

7

150ft

+8

+10

36

8

200ft

+8

+11

40

Dragons develop varied interests so each of them has one other skill at the
grand mastery level (14+size modifier) chosen by the GM. Dragons breath
attacks may be done instead of its normal attacks (in any round) with a base
damage of its Str+8 to all targets in a cone (use missile skill) 80 feet long
and 60 feet wide.

Attributes for Size 1

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

16

16

16

16

16

Skills

Melee,Missile,Alertness,Acrobatica,Climbing,Swimming,Flight,+1
miscellaneous:14

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Missile(Gun Kata,Lethal
Targeting)

Masteries

Alertness (Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense), Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal
Movement)

Masteries

Climbing (SpiderClimb), Swimming (Aquaman), Flight (Windrider, Defensive
Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

16

30/30

45/45(49 Air)

(Str+Claw/Bite/Weapon)(+3 Melee/Missile)

4+

5Dur+12Skin=17+/6xDur

Breath/Death from Above

Sustained,Resistance to Arcane:2+,Major Shape Change:mimic any lvl 1-4 monster
(keep better attributes)

16+(64+ flight)

Skeletons: (Lvl 2) Humanoid animated bones that can have a human intelligence.
They tend to jealously hate the living although some of them have been known
to associate with mages or priests.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

4

6

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Alertness:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

16

27/27

8+Weapon

2

2Dur+Armor/24

-

Against Piercing Weapons:+10DR,Slashing:+4DR

8

* * *

Human Soldiers: (Lvl 1) Standard human warriors, guardsmen, pirates, bandits,
archers etc.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

7

7

7

4

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Alertness:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

13

24/24

7+Weapon

1

2Dur+Armor/7+

-

Some may have Grit:1

7

* * *

Carnivorous Trees: (Lvl 3) Think weeping willows with an appetite. Have a
hollow at their base where they try to stuff you. Incredibly stout Legends
have been known to frequent this spot for it has been rumored to be quite cozy
and usually a safe place to rest. The Chew special attack: While in the maw of
the Carnivorous Tree victims take 14 damage per round until they are
killed/digested. Those with 14+ total DR can remain in the maw safely.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

14

1

8

1

Skills

Melee:8,Stealth:10

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

16

27/19

16

2

4Dur+6Skin=10/42

Chew

appears to be a normal tree

8

* * *

Harpies: (Lvl 2) Dark winged clawed feet female monsters. They have a sonic
attack which can stun an opponent who hears the screech. A harpy makes a
single check of Pre+d20 vs. opponents will, if effective their victims are
penalized 6 to hit and defense class.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

6

7

8

4

6

6

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Flight:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

15

26/26

8 (Talons or Dropped Rocks)

1

2Dur+2Skin=4/16

Screech

-

7(14 air)

* * *

Medusas: (Lvl 4) Gazing upon a medusa can turn a victim to stone. These
hideous women have snakes for hair. Once per round anyone gazing at a medusa
(alive or dead) must make will check vs. 18 or be turned to stone.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

16

12

10

10

1

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica: 12

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Missile(QuickShot)

Masteries

Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

22

28

39/39

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee)

4

4Dur+2Skin+Armor/60

Stone

Immunity to Poison,RA:7

16(Leap 26y (78'))

* * *

Gargoyles: (Lvl 3) Stone creatures who have been cursed to their current
existence as a Gargoyle. Gargoyles tend to gather in groups or hierarchies.
These groups have been known to make peace with nearby human settlements.
Gargoyles tend to find secluded mountain caves or other such locations that
provide them with a safe haven.

  * Stone Lords – Land based ones.
  * Aerophants – Flying ones.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12

10

16

4

4

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8, Missile,Flight:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

18

29/29

14(claws)

2

5Dur+7Skin=12/48

-

Stone

10 (20 flight)

* * *

Giant Rodents: (Lvl 1) These rodents of unusually large size exist in the
sewer systems of large human towns. Their bite can induce disease into their
victims. When a Giant Rodent bites a target and causes damage they make a
single check of Str vs. Target Durability, if successful the target becomes
infected with a terrible disease with lowers the characters Strength and
Durability by 1 point per month, d6 months or until cured. Stats are regained
at the rate of 1 point per month in both strength and durability after the
disease is finished.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

4

4

1

1

1

Skills

Melee:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

8

19/15

5

1

1Dur/4

Disease

-

4

* * *

Golems: (Lvl 4) Powerful flesh, stone, iron or bone creatures that have been
created by powerful mages. They are immune to direct magical attacks (can
still be harmed by summoned creatures/objects etc.). They vary in size but are
usually 7 feet tall or larger and some even have sarcophagi capable of
protecting a passenger. They attack with Great Maul-like appendages inflicting
two handed weapon damage with each punch/smash/boot.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

18

12

16

10

10

1

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica: 12

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Missile(Reflexive Deflection)

Masteries

Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

10

24

37/37

STR+4(or weapon)(+3 Melee)

3

5Dur+13Skin=18/80

-

RA:10

12(28y or 84 =18str+66feetAnimeLeap)

* * *

Assassins: (Lvl 3) Trained killers these cut-throat mercenaries are hired to
kill other humans (nobles and lords are their standard victims as the enemies
of such high standing people can afford to pay the Assassins expensive fees).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

12

10

8

8

4

Skills

Melee,Missile:10,Acrobatica:8,Stealth:10,Alertness:8

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting), Missile(Quickshot), Stealth(Ambush)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

18

22

33/31

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee)/Weapon

3

3Dur+2Skin+Armor/30

Ambush(+10Damage)

-

12

* * *

Ramshackles: (Lvl 3) Undead. Half-skeleton, half shackles and chains. These
solitary creatures are greater undead and delight in the pain of others. They
usually wield a wicked chain that does Str + 5 damage. Once per round, instead
of their normal attacks, they may launch spiked chains at all targets within
30feet. Make a single to hit roll and apply their normal melee attack damage
(opponents may parry if they choose instead of evading).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

10

12

4

8

1

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica: 8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

18/10

29/29

21(16+Weapon)

2

4Dur+2Skin+4Armor=10/36

Spiked Chains

Sustained,Immune to Poison/Disease

10

* * *

Giant Man-Eating Nectarines: (Lvl 2) WTF? These scare me.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

6

10

1

1

1

Skills

Melee:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

12/6

23/17

12

1

3Dur+2Skin=5/20

-

Taste Delicious

6

* * *

Bone Beserkers: (Lvl 2) A tribe of barbarians that live in graveyards of large
elephants. They used to be human, but they have changed over time, becoming
part Elephant Skeleton/Part Human.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

3

4

2

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Stealth,Alertness:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

3

14/14

25/25

8+Weapon

2

2Dur+2Skin+Armor/16

-

Against Piercing Weapons:+5DR,Slashing:+2DR

8

* * *

BattleCube: (Lvl 3) Think a small floating golem like creature with spikes and
stuff that extend and shoot out at will. Often made up of remnants of old
weapons. (Undead? Phantasm? The world may never know). They may missile attack
at Base Damage +2 with their malformed weaponry.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12

16

12

4

8

2

Skills

Missile,Acrobatica,Flight:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

16/24

35/35

14

4

4Dur+6Skin/36

-

Regen:1hp/round

16(Flight 32)

* * *

Animated Armor: (Lvl 5) These accursed suits are all that remains of once
great knights that turned from their righteous path and descended into the
bowels of demonic evil. Dark ceremonies and rituals known of only by a few,
and practiced by even fewer allow a warrior to transcend death into a suit of
armor. They can exist this way eternally. The Animated Armor regenerates 3 hit
points / round and is highly resistant to magic RA: 7. Animated Armor are
composed of +3 Platemail armor.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

20

16

20

6

14

6

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Alertness,Climbing:16

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Missile(Lethal Targeting, Gun
Kata)

Masteries

Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal Movement),Alertness:16 (Panoramic Vision,
Danger Sense)

Masteries

Climbing (Spiderclimb)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

32/32

47/47

20+Weapon(+3 Melee)/20+Weapon(+3 Missile)

4

6Dur+4Skin+9Armor=19/120

-

Sustained, Immune to Poison,Disease

16

* * *

Evil Cheese: (Lvl 1) No one wants to mess with this. Found in dungeons and
dairy farms. It is a strange creature that can morph into standard wheels of
cheese. This limited shape change power allows the creature to attack others
by surprise suffocated the life out of their would be eaters. Their special
suffocate attack is made at a check of d20+Evil Cheese Strength vs. Target's
Durability. If successful the target is left gagging and clawing at the cheese
and unable to act that round, make an additional check next round after
applying Cheese damage.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

4

4

1

1

1

Skills

Melee:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

8/8

15/15

5

1

1Dur/4

Suffocate

-

4

* * *

Blobs – Giant amoeba: (Lvl 3) These oozing masses absorb all life around them.
A rare few among their kind are intelligent and can be trained. On any
succesful pseudopod strike they may envelop a target (smaller than their own
size), the target receives the following penalties while enveloped, -4 to base
damage and half actions (minimum one).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

16

0-1

6

0

Skills

Melee:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

0-1

16/8

27/19

15

2

5Dur+5Skin/48

Envelop

-

8

* * *

Ghosts: (Lvl 2) These incorporeal creatures cannot be harmed by physical
objects (magic weapons don’t affect ghosts). Magic attacks are their only
weakness (fire bolt, ice blast, mind scythe). They can make a touch attack
(cannot be parried, use evade) to cause their target to lose d6+4 hit points.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

-

8

8

6

10

4

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica,Flight:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

14/8

25/25

d6+4

2

2/12

ignore armor

immune to physical attacks

8(16 flight)

* * *

Dread Mages: (Lvl 5) Undead mages with full knowledge of all schools of magic
(All Mages Level 9). These master wizards are shrouded in mystery and
darkness. They have surpassed the limits of their lives and work towards their
own ends. Regeneration/Shapeshift:10 = 10 hit point/ round, doesn't die till
double negative durability and remains conscious until destroyed. These
creatures are also highly resistant to magic, RA 7. Dread Mages have Spell
Mastery in Blazing Episode Ender (4d6+28), Fantastic Mount (Attrib = 20),
Obsidian Sheath (skin DR + 7), Dense Air 3 (Armor DR = 9).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

20

14

14

20

16

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Alertness:14

Masteries

Melee(Quick Draw,Reflexive Deflection),Missile(Lethal Targeting, Gun Kata)

Masteries

Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement),Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Danger
Sense)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

28

34/34

49/49

(8+Weapon) or by Spell (+3 Missile)

5

6+9Armor+7Skin=22/84

-

Magic:Lvl 9 in all areas, Sustained, Immune to Poison/Disease,
Regeneration:10hp/round

20

* * *

Dogs of War: (Lvl 4) These gigantic hounds are vicious hunters and killers.
They normally travel in multiples of three and are vicously strong as well.
Vicious monsters that can hunt you down, kill you, and eat you. They have a
heat based attack (missle breath attack Damage Base:20, ignores non-magical
armor DR) which they may use once per round instead of bite attacks. If you
kill one, one of the others will try to get away and come back with it’s
brethren to hunt you down. They can run on any surface including walls and
ceilings making them even more dangerous hunters.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

14

14

6

10

6

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:12 Climbing,Alertness,Stealth:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision),Climbing(SpiderClimb),Stealth(Ambush)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

26/12

39/39

STR+4(Bite)(+3 Melee)=21

3

12/70

Heat blast

-

-

* * *

Dragonites: (Lvl 4) Half men, half-dragon; full blown ass kickers. Golden
scaled, these creatures can fire energy projectiles from mystical glands on
their forearms. The energy bolt base damage is 18 and can be used at will.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

16

15

8

10

8

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:12 Climbing,Alertness,Stealth,Flight:10

Masteries

Missile(Gun Kata),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Flight(Defensive Manuvering)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision),Climbing(SpiderClimb),Stealth(Ambush)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

28/28

41/41 (45 Air)

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee) or STR+2Claw,Bite(+3 Melee)/18 EnergyBolt

3

9+Armor/75

Energy Bolt

-

16(32 flight)

* * *

Fallen Angels: (Lvl 6) They kick ass, but not for the Lord. These fallen
dimensional creatures have taken their own path away from whatever plan the
higher power that they were spawned from had for them initially.
Regeneration/Shapeshift:6. All Magic level 10. Spell mastery Obsidian
Sheath,Dense Air 3, & Ultimate Power (already included in their attributes,
Permanence). Immune to Magic/Supernatural attacks. Action Man: Level 6, Divine
Power abilities lvl 10.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

24

24

24

12

16

14

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:18, Alertness:16

Skills

Fire,Air,Earth,Spirit,Water,Flight:10

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun Kata,Death Blossom),Acrobatica(Anime
Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,CounterAttack,Reflexive Deflection),Flight(Defensive
Manuvering)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

12

42/42

57/57 (61air)

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee) or by spell(+3 Missile)

8

8+4(powers)+7Skin(spell)+9Armor(spell)=28/144

-

-

24(48 flight)

* * *

Cravens: (Lvl 1) Small humanoid blood-sucking creatures with wings. They have
a special sharp feeding tube bonelike projection they can extend from their
mouths with incredible force. They usually attack in swarms, certain herbs and
alchemical brews have been known to drive and keep them away in areas where
they are known to feed (bogs/swamps).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

6

4

1

2

1

Skills

Melee,Flight:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

10

21/17

8

1

1/4

bone mouth tube

-

6(12 flight)

* * *

Money Leeches: (Lvl 1) They actually feed off precious metals like adamantium
and gold. They are small parasites that can disguise themselves as coins and
feed and multiply when placed in a large enough supply of it. They can lay
dormant for years so that even if you discover one, it’s difficult to cleanse
a treasury of them. Mages have made a pretty coin using their divine magic to
identify the Leeches.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

2

2

6

0

0

0

Skills

Stealth:10

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

0

2/2

13/13

2

1

2/6

consume metals

mimic coins

2

* * *

Rain of Frogs: (Lvl 3)(Mark needs to stop eating bad Chinese food). They
appear initially as dark storm clouds bunched together covering a circular
area of 50 ft radius circle. Once the clouds have discovered a large enough
creature to attack they begin showering down thousands of frogs which bite and
tongue their victims doing 2d6 points of damage per round – the victims DR.
The cloud itself usually floats about 200 feet up or more and fairly
resistance to damage.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

0

12

16

4

8

2

Skills

Missile,Melee,Acrobatica,Flight:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

20/20

31/31

2d6

3

5Dur+8Skin=13/48

frog rain

-

12(24 flight)

* * *

Demon Cats: (Lvl 3) Spawned hellcats from the feral gods Boeing and Tempest.
These creatures look like large black and red, or white and black tigers.
Their evil intellect sets them apart from normal large predators. They prefer
to hunt alone and prefer the taste of human flesh. They can turn invisible at
will (this invisibility only lasts for the first 6 rounds of combat- +4 to
evade, cannot be targeted by missile attacks unless an alertness check defeats
their stealth).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

16

12

6

9

4

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica,Climbing,Stealth:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

24/16

35/35

12

4

4Dur+4Skin=8/36

-

-

16

* * *

Vampires/Succubi/Incubus: (Lvl 4-5) These are the most powerful of the
creatures of the night that feed off of living creatures blood or life essence
(in the case of Succubi/Incubus). They are unaging so their plans can
generally go well beyond the scope of a human lifetime. They are social
creatures often well integrated into human societies. They are also quite
willing to ally with others of their kind to further their own ends. They
regenerate 2 hit points / round, and may focus this healing to regenerate 2hp
per action. If they drain a victim they gain 2d6hp per action spent draining,
and may inflict bite damage on the target. They can shapeshift into the
following forms, wolf, bat, vermin. Level 5 vampires have the higher
attributes/skills and the additional masteries. To get attributes/stats for
lesser vampire spawn, use human soldiers with the Vampire subpower (boosted
STR + AGI).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14-16

14-18

14-16

10-14

10-14

10-14

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Climbing,Stealth,Alertness,Flight:10-14

Masteries

Missile(Quickdraw,Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Flight(Defensive Manuvering)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense),Climbing(SpiderClimb)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

20-28

24-32/24-32

35-45/35-45(35-49Air)

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee) (Bite/Punch do str damage)

3-4

4-5Dur+4-6Skin + Armor/DurX5-6

Drain

-

14-18(28-36 Flight)

* * *

Phantasms: (Lvl 2) These quasi-physical creatures attack the minds of their
unsuspecting victims. They feed off the emotions of sentient creatures. They
often attempt to inspire horrific fear or extraordinary pleasure in order to
satiate their hunger (similar to Succubi/Incubi). They cannot be affected by
physical attacks although magical spells and spell like effects can harm them.
They have Spirit magic Lvl 6.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

0

8

8

8

10

6

Skills

Missile,Acrobatica,Flight:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

8/14

19/25

9(Mental)

2

2/16

Illusions

Immune to Physical attacks

8(16 flight)

* * *

Horrors from the Deep: (Lvl 4) These vicious reptilian fishlike humanoids live
at the bottom of oceans or seas. They have been known to inhabit smaller water
sources though. Horrors have no extraordinary racial abilities, but many of
their kind are known to use magic. Horrors can breath water or air.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

14

14

8

16

4

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica,Swimming:12 Alertness:10 Water Magic:9

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Swimming(Aquaman)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

26/14

37/37

14+Weapon(+3Melee) or 16(Claw)(+3Melee)

3

4Dur+6Skin+4Chain=14DR/70

-

-

14

* * *

Mermaids: (Lvl 1) These beautiful sea women have been known to enchant sailors
or pirates. Unfortunately although good natured they are incredible foolish
and draw land based humanoids to a watery grave. Their only special power is
their supernatural presence ( 12 ) and passive abilty to enthrall onlookers.
In order to resist the charms of the mermaid anyone encountering them must
make a WIL check vs. the Mermaid's presence or follow the mermaid under the
surface.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

4

3

4

4

12

Skills

Swimming,Acrobatica:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

4/4

21/21

5 (dagger)

1

1/4

Enthrall

-

4

* * *

Hell Lords: (Lvl 6) Major demons. Come in all sorts, with all sorts of
abilities. Dark Pact lvl 10, Regeneration lvl 6, Hell lords are masters of
fire magic ( level 10 ability). They are also physical juggernauts. The adorn
Large brimstone based, +2 Masterwork plate armor.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

28

20

24

12

16

14

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:18, Alertness:16

Skills

Fire,Air,Earth,Spirit,Water,Flight:10

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun Kata,Death Blossom),Acrobatica(Anime
Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,CounterAttack,Reflexive Deflection),Flight(Defensive
Manuvering)

Masteries

Alertness(Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

12

38/38

53/53(57air)

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee) or by spell(+3 Missile)

8

8Dur+10Skin+10Armor(spell)=28/144

-

-

20(40 flight)

* * *

Yeti: (Lvl 3) Abominable snowmen. Found in artic terrains and mountain tops
(although a few foolhardy ones have been known to wander into the desert “for
thrills and chills”).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

8

12

2

6

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica,Alertness:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16/8

27/27

18

2

4Dur+6Skin=10/36

-

-

8

* * *

Dopplegangers: (Lvl 2) These humanoid creatures can morph their physical form
to appear as friends or allies. They have minor telepathic abilities and can
choose to appear as a trusted friend. Regeneration/Shapeshift lvl 6, they have
spirit magic level 4.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

10

8

8

8

8

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:8,Stealth,Alertness:6,Storytelling:10

Masteries

Storytelling(Enthrall)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

18/18

29/29

8+Weapon

2

2Dur+2Skin+Armor/16

Mimic

Spirit Magic

10

* * *

Ringworms: (Lvl 1) Unfortunately these creatures are ever prevalent in many
food sources. Most of the time these parasites are destroyed by the digestion
and antibody system of the host. Anyone who eats a ringworm egg ridden meal
must make a durability check difficulty 13 or become sick. The ringworms can
be purged by surgery or a foul tasting bitter nectar (can be made by
alchemists). The ringworms cause abdominal cramps and diarrhea. In a given
tense situation ( combat, climbing into a keep, etc.), if a will check 18 is
not made a penalty of 2 to hit, evade, parry and other physical skills
(climbing, blacksmithing, etc.) is applied (not cumulative, lasts for
10minutes).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

0

1

1

0

0

0

Skills

None

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

0

1/1

12/12

0

1

0/1

Parasite

-

1

* * *

Griffins: (Lvl 4) These eagle/lion crossbreeds are vicious hunters but can
make well trained mounts. They are fairly intelligent ( thought 1) but do not
have the ability to speak. There are secondary only to dragons in the aerial
combat. They are lethal at picking up large objects and dropping them
precisely on ground based targets in bombing runs.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

15

12

15

2

10

10

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:14,Flight:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Counterattack),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun Kata),Flight(Defensive Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

26/26

39/39(43 air)

STR+4(Beak or Razor Claw)(+3 Melee)/STR+4(Heavy object)(+3 Missile)

3

5Dur+6Skin+Armor/75

-

-

12(24 flight)

* * *

Unholy Warriors: (Lvl 4) Powerful zombie warriors. They are often fairly
intelligent and even a little bit honorable (but not always).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

10

18

6

10

4

Skills

Melee:14,Missile,Acrobatica:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Missile(Quickshot)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

16

24/20

37/35

STR+Weapon(+3 Melee)

2

6Dur+8Skin+Armor/90

-

Sustained,Immune to Poison & Disease

10

* * *

Unicorns: (Lvl 4) These majestic horses with a single horn on their heads are
kind natured and good willed for the most part. Some rare few have been known
to commit terrible atrocities (the goring of a fair princess now and then).
The creatures have water magic level 10 and all other magic areas up to level
6. One of their greatest defensive spells, Teleport, allows them to escape
dangerous situations. Unicorns have a communal memory and once one of them has
been ill-treated by a human, no others will deal with that person again.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

14

14

8

10

10

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:14,Missile:10,Water Magic:10,Fire,Earth,Air,Spirit
Magic:6,All Magic:6

Masteries

Melee(Reflexive Deflection,Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal
Movement)

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting)

Total Mana

168

Available Mana

160

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

28/24

41/41

STR+4 Horn(+3 Melee) or by spell(+3 Missile)

3

4Dur+4Skin+2Skin(spell)+4Armor(spell)=14/75

-

-

14+Teleport

* * *

Dryads: (Lvl 3) Woodland creatures that have Water magic at Lvl 5. They can
shapechange into a tree at will. They tend to live in small communities (20 to
30 dryads) deep in the heart of large forests. Dryads do not age, but have no
long term memories… they live a day to day existence. Whether or not they will
deal with other creatures is fairly random. They are Attuned:4 (can summon
level 2 monsters to help them)

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

14

12

8

10

9

Skills

Missile,Melee,Acrobatica:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

10

24/24

35/35

8+Weapon

3

4Dur+4Skin=8/36

-

Mimic Tree

14 (Nature Walk)

* * *

Leprechauns: (Lvl 4) Leprechauns have All Magic 7. In addition, once per month
they have the ability to grant a minor wish to anyone who catches them (often
time this is a nice amount of money = 100 AP). Besides some defensive magic
and Greater Power (which they have permanently enhanced some of their
attributes with), their favorite spells are Blessing of War, Teleport, Summon
Greater Monster and Wrath of God. The have spell mastery in Wrath of God (base
damage=22), Obsidian Sheath (+6 skin DR) and Dense Air 3 (8 Armor DR).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

9(12)

13(16)

9(12)

8(11)

8(11)

8

Skills

Missile,Acrobatica:14,Melee:10,Fire,Air,Earth,Water,Spirit,All Magic:7

Masteries

Melee(Reflexive Deflection),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun Kata)

Total Mana

179

Available Mana

135

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

11

26/30

45/45

STR+Weapon or by spell (+3 Missile)

4

4Dur+6Skin(spell)+8Armor(spell)=18/60

-

-

16 (Teleport)

* * *

Pixies & Sprites: (Lvl 2) Mischevious inch-high mystical creatures. Exist in
all natural environments. Have minor (cantrip-like) magical abilities, except
for the leaders (Level 7 All Magic, stats as a leprauchaun, lvl 4 monster).
Tend to have communities in unusually striking and breathtakingly beautiful
natural surroundings (ancient trees, pristine lakes, mountain ravine, desert
oasis, etc). Communities can be quite large up to several hundred members.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

2

8

6

6

6

8

Skills

Missile:6,Acrobatica:9,Storytelling:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

8/14

19/28

2+Weapon

2

1/6

Sleep Arrows

-

8 (some can fly 16)

* * *

Scarlet Fog: (Lvl 4) A reddish mist made up of bacteria. They start dissolving
the skin with an acidic attack. The acid also damages armor, dissolving 1 DR a
round (can be repaired if not totally destroyed). The mist does 3d6+6 points
of damage per action minus skin and Durability DR to any creatures within it.
Though this is not a disease, the Cure Disease spell with harm the mist, as
will any fire or water based attack although it is immune to other physical
attacks.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

0

15

12

2

8

0

Skills

Acrobatica:12,Flight:10

Masteries

Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Flight(Defensive Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

15/15

38/38(42 air)

3d6+6 (only Skin & Dur DR effective)

3

4Dur+6Skin=10/75

-

-

15(30 flight)

* * *

Giant Insects: (Lvl 2-4) For every level above 2 the insect gets +3 to
attributes, +2 to all skills. The base stats are listed. Different insects
have different special abilities.

Insect

Special Attack & Natural Mobility

Locusts

Flight, Eats Crops

Mosquitoes

Flight, Blood drain: their attacks heal them d6+1 when they inflict damage

Bees

Flight, Sting: causes intense pain in the target, giving them -4 to all skill
checks on a successful hit for damage

Praying Mantis

Very Strong:Str+4

Ants

Very Strong:Str+4

Spiders

Web: missile attack against one target, if successful that target must break
free if they wish to move, the break check is the target's STR vs. the
Spider's STR + 4

Giant Insect Level:

Size

Natural Weapon Base Damage

Bonus Skin DR

Grit

2

6ft

+2

8

1

3

10ft

+4

12

2

4

20ft

+6

16

4

Base Stats for a level 2 Giant Insect are below:

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

10

8

10

1

1

1

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8,Flight(if applicable):8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

16/8

27/27

10+Weapon(+3 Melee)

2

3Dur+8Skin=11/20

-

-

8(16 flight if applicable)

Applicable Masteries for lvl 3-4 Giant Insects

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Flight(Defensive Maneuvering)

* * *

LandWorms: (Lvl 3-4) Enormous simple minded worms, and they may burrow through
any terrain (including stone). Tend to range in length from 20 to 50 feet.
Landworms may burrow at their full normal movement. Landworms prefer moist
environments and often times can be used in desert terrains to locate a
nearbye oasis.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

12-16

8-12

12-16

2

6-10

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8-12

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16-24/8-12

27-35/27-35

STR+2(bludgeon)(+3 Melee)

2-3

4-5Dur+6-8Skin=10-13/36-80

-

-

8-12

* * *

War Pygmies: (Lvl 4) Midget weapon masters decked out with tatoos and wearing
minimal animal skins. The prefer to use small two handed axes Str+2 damage, or
blowguns Strength + 1 damage.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

16

12

6

8

6

Skills

Melee,Missile:14,Acrobatica:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Acrobatica(Arboreal Movement)

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Gun Kata)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

30/30

41/41

STr+Weapon(+3 Melee)

4

4Dur+2Skin=6/60

-

-

16(32 Arboreal Move)

* * *

Cave Crawlers: (Lvl 4) Long spindly things, extremely jointed and flexible,
with lots of claws on various appendages. They look like a cross between a
preying mantis and spider. The can climb any surface and can burrow their
normal movement.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

12

16

1

10

10

Skills

Melee:14,Acrobatica:10,Climbing:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Counterattack),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Climbing(SpiderClimb)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

26/12

37/33

STR+3(claw/bite)(+3 Melee)

3

5Dur+8Skin=13/80

-

-

12(25y leap,76')

* * *

Goblins: (Lvl 1) Yum yums! Tasty treats for the whole family! Little ugly
humanoids with a penchant for evil.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

3

4

3

4

3

3

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

3

8/8

19/19

3+Weapon

1

1/3

-

-

4

* * *

Orcs: (Lvl 2) An intelligent scholarly race, that revels in the finer aspects
of culture. They have a great love for music and their pointed ears give them
excellent hearing (+4 to WIL checks involving listening). They are fine
engineers and craftsmen. They have a racial bonus of +2 to any skill rolls
involving these areas. Often times, humans will seek out an Orcish blacksmith,
or Orcish architect to do a grand job. They are a rare few orcs who have been
banished from their original homes, these wandering barbaric orcs often attack
and attempt to kill/rob weakly defended humanoids.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

6

6

6

Skills

Lore,Acrobatica,Melee,Missile,Blacksmith,Profession:Architecture:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

16/16

27/27

8+Weapon

2

2+2skin+Armor/16

-

-

8

* * *

Manifest Evil: (Poltergeist) (Lvl 5) Takes over people/creatures/animates
objects. This evil force can only be harmed by magical attacks when not
possessing a creature and truly enchanted weapons (magic weapons not spell
boosted items). Otherwise it has the defenses of the host. If the host is
killed the evil is temporarily banished until the next midnight when it
returns with a vengeance. If destroyed in it’s natural form it is banished
until the next full moon. These creatures are immortal. In order for a
Poltergeist to possess a target, it must roll a check of it's Presence vs. the
Targets WIL. If successful the Poltergeist can retain control of the creature
for 1 round + 1round for ever success. The Poltergeist may possess as many
targets per day as it wishes although only one such target at a time, and it's
very obvious that the creature is being possessed (think original Ghostbusters
Rick Moranis). If a Poltergeist is exorcised it is unable to possess any
objects or creatures for 10minutes.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

16

16

16

16

16

16

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:14,Flight:10

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Acrobatica(Anime Leap,Arboreal
Movement)

Masteries

Missile(Lethal Targeting,Death Blossom)

Masteries

Flight(Defensive Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

16

30/30

43/43(47 air)

16 (Telekinetic blast) or hurled objects 18

4

5Dur+6Skin=11/96

-

-

16(32 flight)

* * *

Singing Bush: (Lvl 1) These magical bushes can wriggle and dance to their own
melodic tunes. They lure people over with enchanting music and have been known
to capture audiences until exhaustion forces the victim to pass unconscious.
Once unconcious the Bushes will invariable loot the victim of any shiny
objects and their shoes, and leave them with a strange smelling chloroform
based candy before uprooting and wandering away.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

4

4

3

3

10

Skills

Acrobatica:6, Profession Dance:6,Profession Singer:6,Storytelling:10

Mastery

Storytelling(Enthrall)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

3

4/4

21/21

4

1

1Dur/4

Enthrall

-

4

* * *

Progeny of the Dark: (Lvl 2) These onyx skinned humanoids stand roughly 5 ft
tall. They have average builds and appear to be humans from a distance. The
Progeny have completely black eyes that are very sensitive to light. They can
also see in complete darkness up to their normal line of sight. The Progeny
live underground in colonies and have been known to trade with other
humanoids.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

4

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:8, Climbing:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

4

16/16

27/27

8+Weapon

2

2Dur+Armor/16

-

-

8

* * *

Field Hands: (Lvl 1) (Undead) Formed from the bodies of peasants. They cluster
around fields, trying to steal food and destroy crops. These creatures
mysteriously appear and will rise up against oppressing farm owners. They will
often be wearing their Sunday finest.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

6

4

6

2

2

1

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

8/4

19/19

6+Weapon

1

2Dur/6

-

Sustained,Immune to Poison&Disease

4

* * *

Missing Links: Lvl 3 (More Undead) – These creatures are giant animated
sausage links back to get their vengeance upon mankind. Their animated by the
animal spirits that were butchered to make sausages.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

12

2

7

1

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16/8

27/27

16 (bludgeon)

2

4Dur+4Skin=8/36

-

Taste Delicious Grilled

8

* * *

The Raisinoids: Lvl 3. Look like little California Raisin people. They move
extremely fast (look like a blur). They have the Action Man Power level 4.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

4

12

12

4

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica:8, Climbing,Swimmming:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

8

20/20

35/35

4+Weapon

5

4Dur+2Skin+Armor/36

-

Also Taste Delicious

12

* * *

BogWumps: (Lvl 3) Creatures that live in marshes and swamps (mostly under the
water). Like giant potato-shaped bodies with lots of tentacles and mouths,
they tend to pull victims under and shake them vigorously.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

16

2

6

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8, Missile:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16

27/27

16

2

5Dur+6Skin=11/48

-

Sustained

8

—-

BookWorms: (Lvl 1) Eat books/leather. Especially like the magical stuff. They
are the result of a master wizard’s punishment for his failing students. These
creatures have a chance of appearing when a magic items creation attempt
fails. They will attempt to eat any papers/leather the mage has.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

2

4

2

0

1

0

Skills

Stealth:7

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

0

4/4

15/15

2

1

0/2

Eat books

-

4

* * *

FireBats: (Lvl 1) Bats that are weird blood-red colors with wings fading to
orange and yellow. Breathe fire, base damage 7, range 15feet.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

5

4

4

1

1

1

Skills

Missile,Melee,Flight,AcroBATica:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

1

8/8

19/19

5/7Breath

1

1Dur/4

Firebreath

-

4(8 Flight)

* * *

Phoenix: (Lvl 2-5) These fiery eagles can fire a blast of flame (Fire Bolt
cast at Phoenix Level + 7) or make a fiery clawed attack. If their bodies are
put into a hot enough fire after death they are resurrected. Larger phoenix
have been known to resurrect without a fire source. For every level above 2
they gain +3 to attributes, +2 to all skills, +4 DR per size/level.

Phoenix Level:

Size

Phoenix Weapon Base Damage

Bonus Skin DR

Grit

2

6ft

+2

4

1

3

12ft

+4

8

2

4

18ft

+6

12

4

5

30ft

+8

16

5

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

8

8

8

2

4

4

Skills

Melee,Missile,Acrobatica,Flight,Alertness:8

Masteries

Melee(Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection),Missile(Gun Kata,Lethal
Targeting)

Masteries

Alertness (Panoramic Vision,Danger Sense), Acrobatica (Anime Leap, Arboreal
Movement)

Masteries

Flight (Windrider, Defensive Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16+/16+

27+/27+

STR+2(Beak,Claws)+

2+

2Dur+4Skin=6+/(Grit+1)xDUR

Firebolt

Self Ressurection

8+(16+ flight)

* * *

Gores: (Lvl 2) (Undead) – Bloody wound-ridden bodies. Looks strikingly
familiar to a former steward to the king. Clusters around cities, trying to
tear them down and restore the environment. Once every other round in lieu of
their standard attacks the Gores can breathe out the infamous “Boring Gore
Wind”, make a check of Gores' PRE vs. all target's WIL within a 20' radius
about the Gore. Each target affected loses 1 + number of successes earned in the
check, actions.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

6

8

8

3

8

6

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica,Climbing:6

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

3

14/8

25/25

6+Weapon

2

2Dur+2Skin/16

Boring Wind

-

8

* * *

The Maggotons: (Lvl 3) Huge humanoid creatures made up of thousands and
thousands of maggots. These writhing masses will attempt to consume raw flesh
and increase their numbers. Rumor has it that the Maggotons were summoned by
mages after a great war centuries ago to clean up the dead (must have been a
lot of dead).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

14

1

6

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:8, Missile:8

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

16

27/27

16

2

4Dur+4Skin=8/42

-

Regeneration:2hp/rnd

8

* * *

Sphynx: (Lvl 4) This mythical creature has the head of the woman, the claws of
a lion and a the wings of an eagle. Sphynx are rumored to always be looking
for a great new riddles.

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

12

14

12

10

8

Skills

Missile,Flight,Alertness,Acrobatica:10,Melee:14

Masteries

Melee(Reflexive Deflection,Lethal Targeting),Missile(QuickShot)

Masteries

Alertness(Danger Sense),Acrobatica(Anime Leap)

Masteries

Flight(Defensive Maneuvering)

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

22

26/22

35/35 (39 Air)

STR+Weapon or +3Claw(+3Melee)

3

4Dur+7Skin=11/70

-

-

12(24

* * *

Shrublings: (Lvl 1) Small (fist-sized) creatures that look like furry balls
(tribbles). Cluster in tribes under large forest shrubs. (Think Secret of
Nymph).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

1

4

4

2

2

2

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:4

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

2

8/4

19/19

1

1

1Dur/4

-

-

4

* * *

The Monster Under the Bed: (Lvl 3) These nefarious boogie men, found in city
type environments (especially inns in which PC’s sleep).

Str

Agi

Dur

Tht

Wil

Pre

14

8

14

6

8

1

Skills

Melee,Acrobatica:10,Stealth:10

Initiative

Hit

Parry/Evade

Damage

number of actions

DR/HP

Special Attacks

Special Abilities

Move

6

18/8

29/29

16

2

4Dur+6Skin=10/42

-

-

8

* * *

##  Character sheet

#  Setting

Legends represents a flexible system for any style or type of heroic based
fantasy roleplaying world. Included below are a couple of short story examples
of what could happen using the legends system as a guideline. GMs should feel
free to use the system however they see fit in order to bring the most wonder
and entertainment to their playing group.

##  Child Legend

Dante’s 5th Birthday

His father knew it was better that he be hidden. Others would use a child like
any other weakness, applying pressure until something snapped. The risk to
himself and his son was too great to allow public knowledge of the child until
he could defend himself. Then he would be another ally, perhaps someone he
could trust.

Dante sat on the windowsill as the rain tapped down relentlessly. He didn’t
comprehend his situation, but perhaps more importantly he didn’t really care.
As far as he was concerned too much time was spent talking, preparing, and
performing accepted rituals then in action. Dante saw his father rarely, and
already knew that the woman that watched him was scared of his father. Perhaps
this fear was best for protecting Dante, but it wasn’t the primary motivation
of his caregiver. A young and beautiful woman, her name was Marie. She was a
great cook and took excellent care of the large Victorian house by herself.
She helped Dante learn to read and write. His formal education would begin in
the following month.

Marie had fallen asleep, after baking a wonderful cake and giving Dante his
present, a small finely crafted wooden sword. Dante had been asking for one
for a few months now since he saw the older boys sparring in the fields near
his house. The sword had been hidden on a shelf high in the cupboard for over
a week now and Dante had play fought with the sword at night, but in the
morning he always carefully replaced it. Now was his chance to explore. He
never slept as much as Marie, he almost felt sorry for her having to
constantly lay down and nap, there was so much to do. He opened the window
that’s lock was supposed to be out of his reach, it didn’t take much thought
to grab a stool from the kitchen. After the first sheet of rain swept over his
face he leapt out onto the rooftop. After a short skid he stopped, gazing out
into the night. He was blessed with superb night vision and enjoyed the night
as much as the day. Things were different at night, it was time for the chase.
He dropped down to a lower roof and slid down the gutter after closing the
window (the noise of the rain might have wakened Marie). He heard the call of
a distant wolf. Dante disliked the rain, and he enjoyed the fact that the
wolves couldn’t towel themselves off like he did after finishing his
exploration. He began sprinting through the light woods attempting to get
closer to the deep woods where life thrived.

Dante is a young Legend, gifted with incredible natural agility, durability
and strength. While clever, he's not brilliant but has a strong will and
average personality. His Legendary abilities are Attribute Enhancement:
Agility & Strength (lvl 1), and he has 3 sub-powers: Ninja, Chef, Warlord.
This gives him a total set of attributes of STR:10(8 due to young age),
AGI:12, DUR:10, THT:6, WIL:8, PRE:3, starting skills Melee:6(10 Lethal
Targeting), Missile:(2), Acrobatica:6(10 Anime Leap), Climbing:(2),
Stealth:(2)

At this point fear might have stopped him from travelling onward. Just three
weeks earlier a large scratch on his face had been explained away as a fall
off a tree to Marie who would have been very upset if she knew the truth.
Luckily Marie hadn’t seen the deep claw marks on his stomach and legs. He’d
quickly wrapped up the wounds with a light cloth under his sweater and made
sure he wore baggy garments to conceal the bandages. He knew he would have
been caught had the weather been warmer or Marie been more watchful. She gave
him plenty of space and that’s why he liked her so much.

He’d been sneaking out for some time and the distant call of a wolf had been
begging at his curiosity. What did this creature look like, he had to know.
He’d discovered raccoons, ‘possums, rats and owls out at knight, along with
bats, their screeching never made any sense to Dante, how could they sneak up
on anything? But the wolf, it was magnificent and terrifying at the same time.
Its howl sounded very far away. It challenged the people of the area; it
defied their hunters and ate their livestock. This time he had a weapon, a
sword to battle the beast. He thought of his first meeting with the wolf.

The night had been clear and he had left the house through a basement window.
Dante liked using different exits from his house on such expeditions. As usual
in his forest trips he alternated from running and creeping about. He had gone
particularly far from his home and discovered the baying of the wolf. He had
no idea what size the creature was, although he had heard stories of a
monstrous beast in the area that was eating livestock from surrounding farms.
Dante had even seen what the monster had done to a horse. Granger’s farm lost
a stallion only a couple of miles away from his home. Many people were deeply
frightened of any creature that could take down a grown horse. The wolf’s
calls fell upon Dante’s ears with an immediate affect. The howling brought the
child deeper and deeper into the woods. Another howl, and this time it was
close. He knew the creature was near but he couldn’t tell how close it really
was. Suddenly he felt the wolf’s eyes on him. He looked off to his left slowly
and caught the glare of moonlight reflecting back like two small lamps. Fear
gripped the child’s heart, yet something deeper had been satisfied. He had
seen the creature that had put fear into grown men in his town, he felt proud.
The wolf jumped out from its cover and sprang towards Dante who also pounced
away from the creature. His 30-yard lead quickly diminished despite his almost
supernatural dash. He grabbed a tree branch but the wolf was already leaping
towards him. Its claws raked across his back and leg. The branch bent down and
shot back up as Dante spun and flipped in front of the wolf. This time Dante
howled, in pain from another claw to his midsection. The wolf was on its hind
legs batting the child around like a toy. Dante spun into a crouch just out of
reach of the beast. Tears were replaced by a smile. He was suddenly sure he
could wait out the wolf until the morning rays forced the monster to vanish.
He smirked at the odd nature of the thought for a seriously injured boy
fighting a monster. Dante had never been wounded seriously before and the
gashes imparted by the wolf were more than the bruises he had come by earlier
on in life. His moment of triumph in escaping sure death was broken by a wild
leap of the hound. Its jaws snapped shut where Dante’s head was an instant
before. The only damage was a slight tear across his face as he crawled up to
a higher branch. The wolf trotted off shortly afterwards perhaps sensing that
it and Dante would meet again.

The Wolf Lord is a might creature with enough strength to take down a horse,
STR:10, AGI:8, DUR:10, THT:2, WIL:2, PRE:6 (terryifying) Skills:
Melee,Alertness:8 Grit:2

This night would be different. He would show the wolf that he was also a
hunter. This was the first time Dante felt that he had something to prove to a
respected enemy. His wounds from their first meeting had all but healed
leaving only faint scars. How did the wolf know he was coming last time? He
had been sneaking along as quiet as a rat who made it by an owl when the wolf
surprised him. If he couldn’t sneak up on the creature perhaps he could draw
it to him. He knew where the thickets and thorns grew dense and ran towards
them. Although a simple plan it delighted Dante to think of the beast crying
out in pain as it became stuck in the web of thorns. After securing himself in
a great circle of thorns (unfortunately although agile and small Dante still
managed to catch a couple of thorns on his skin) he began a howl of his own.
His voice carried like a small dog’s bark but there was no mistaking it as far
as the wolf was concerned. He recognized the howl of the young human who
defied his belly. Little did the boy know that the great wolf wasn’t
travelling alone tonight, he had with him a pack of wolves following the
master in hopes of food.

The standard wolves are STR,AGI,DUR:4, THT,WIL,PRE:2 Melee:4

Dante waited patiently scanning about and listening for the padded footsteps
of the lone hunter. He was surprised and unnerved by the sounds of ten or more
sets of footsteps closing in on his thorny den. His trap was turned around,
now he was being ambushed. He still had a chance perhaps he could get them to
charge and tangle themselves in the thorns. “Come for you meal, Dogs!”, Dante
exclaimed. One of the smaller wolves charged for the boy. It ended up six feet
short of Dante’s position yelping wildly. If one of the wolves made a path to
him or got a bite on him he knew the consequences, he would be eaten. A vision
of the creatures shredding a precious morsel amongst the pack caused his
senses to sharpen and an additional burst of adrenaline in Dante’s body. He
saw the great wolf leading a charge towards him. He scrambled through the
thorns using the first stuck wolf as cover. The great wolf charged forward and
jumped over his trapped ally. Dante leapt to the side, face first into the
thickets, his clothing was shredded and he was covered with blood but he was
still alive. The great wolf struggled, pulling itself free of the thorns, its
thick hide protecting it from most of the damage, but not the pain, it howled.
Dante slithered about in the thorns wildly. Whenever he came close to the edge
of the thorns a group of wolves would come growling and charging right towards
him. His small size gave Dante an advantage in maneuvering. While not an adult
Dante’s mind and ability to reason had developed remarkably quickly,
unfortunately his wanderlust was even greater.

As he circled about the thorns he realized he was running out of room, the
wolves were cutting off his options, the nearest struggling wolf was getting
free of the thorns but it’s back was facing Dante. Having sharpened the wooden
sword on rocks every night since he found it the small sword actually had
become dangerous. Although only a small child Dante had already developed the
strength of full-grown man (a powerful one at that). He jumped and came down
on the stuck wolf, the wooden blade biting deep into its flesh. It howled as
he jabbed again over and over until it stopped thrashing (it was dead in the
first strike). The other wolves crept back from the thorns at the screams of
their dying pack mate. The great wolf eyed the boy carefully, measuring his
worth. Feeling the wounds Dante staggered slightly the wolf immediately picked
this up and sprang again for the boy. It’s front claws landed on Dante’s
shoulders pinning him to the ground. Saliva dripped from the beast’s mouth
covering Dante’s face. It was over, he had failed. Not only had he failed to
show the beast that he was its equal, but he would no longer enjoy the
wonderful meals Marie spent hours preparing. He thrust up with the wooden
blade just as the beast bent down to crush his skull with a bite; the result
was his blade getting caught into the top of the wolf’s maw. It reared back
from the pain. Dante rolled over and dashed through the thorns again. The wolf
whipped its head and sent the small sword flying. The taste of its own salty
blood only served to enrage the beast further. It began carelessly charging
towards its prey that had lost its fang.

Dante broke from the thorns and began a mad dash for a gnarled old tree, if he
could just make it to the tree the wolves wouldn’t be able to get him. Two of
the pack cut off his first choice and he spun to the right like a running
back. The great wolf charged right by the boy and into the other two wolves.
All three growled and snapped at each other leaving Dante to run towards the
thorns and his sword. Hungry and out of patience for this small prey, the
other wolves closed about the thorns cutting Dante off before he could get
cover. Dante sprang forth from the earth over thiry feet into the air twisting
in a perfect arc and landing amongst the safety of the thorns. The great wolf
snapped one of the smaller wolf’s neck with its mighty jaws. The second
smaller wolf quickly backed down and moved back into the woods. The remainder
of the pack began to slink off into the darkness, on the lookout for easier
prey. The great wolf remained, panting and bloody from hundreds of thorn
scratches and a large gash in its mouth.

Without thinking Dante squirmed through the thorns once again feeling somewhat
at home in this maze and grasped his sword. The boy believed, and he wasn’t
very far from the truth, that when he held the sword it became unbreakable.
All things that become associated with a Legend for a period of time gain some
immeasurable quality, the small wooden sword was no different. The beast
charged into the tattered thorn bushes again and Dante backed away from it,
drawing it deeper. The wolf continued on, unfazed by the grabbing of the
thorns at its flanks. One thorn pushed forward and tore into the beast’s eye
causing it to go white. The great wolf no longer knew hunger, it no longer
cared what would happen after this encounter. Its only desire was the death of
the child Dante. Dante slipped out of the thorn bushes once again and easily
leapt into the tree that had caught his attention earlier. The beast freed
itself from the thorns and raced over hoping to snatch a chunk out of its
nemesis before the boy was out of reach. Dante’s speed was inhuman as he
jumped to a branch and pulled himself up to a crouch. The wolf snapped at
nothing but air where Dante once was. This time would be different for Dante.
He would not wait for the beast to depart. He would only wait for the right
moment to strike. The great wolf became even more frustrated at this familiar
situation and jumped and scraped at the tree as white froth began pouring out
of its maw. On one landing the wolf sank slightly to its left, leaving only
its white wounded eye blind to Dante’s pounce. Dante hurled his small frame
downward just as the creature found its balance and slammed his small wooden
sword into the wounded eye directly into the brain of the beast. The beast
reflexively whipped Dante’s body high into the air in an arc behind it. With
one last great howl that ended in a whimper the mighty dire wolf died.

There was no rejoicing for Dante. He had killed the one creature in this place
that could possibly have understood him. He moved over to the great hulking
form and began prying out one of its fangs. He stood for some time over the
body and then headed home.

The next morning the great wolf’s body was discovered by one of the
townspeople and Marie discovered Dante covered with blood and thorns. No one
would believe that this small child had defeated such a monster. Marie never
spoke of the event to anyone, not even to Dante. She understood that he was
very different than the people of her town. She was surprised at how quickly
Dante healed up from what seemed to be serious cuts and scratches. On many
occasions in the future, Dante would walk off into the woods to think back to
his first encounter with death and he would remember the greatest of all
wolves. He still wears the wolf’s fang on a band of leather about his neck.

Dante’s Early Training

It had been almost two score seasons since his fifth birthday, making Dante a
early teenager. He had finished up with a good portion of his formal
education. With books supplied by his father he had read of his family and
their position as Kings and Queens. The others in his boarding school weren’t
aware of Dante’s mysterious background. Every afternoon, after classes Dante
would go to train with Master Volgan. Volgan was a soft-spoken sensei who
taught Dante patience through repeated practice. Dante began by learning
unarmed fighting techniques and when Volgan was satisfied he allowed Dante to
learn all manners of weapons. From the rapier to the No-Daichi Dante studied
and trained with many of the ancient weapons that are known in Earth history.
Dante took an initial liking to the heavier weapons as he wielded them more
easily than any man Volgan had trained before.

As years rolled by Master Volgan brought Dante to tournaments where his skills
could be tested and refined by learning from others in his field. Dante became
familiar with archery and knife throwing but found the real challenge to be
pitted against another swordsman in duels. Although his reflexives were on the
verge of supernatural his training was far from complete. Master Volgan
arranged for Dante to fight the best of the young adult students. Because of
this Dante grew frustrated at the number of early losses he had suffered. By
his eighteenth birthday, the tables had turned and Dante had grown tired of
the formal tournament fighting and easily besting many of those who had
defeated him in his earlier years.

One such adversary, outraged at the loss of his title to what he believed an
inferior opponent challenged Dante to an honor duel. They would fight until
one of them yielded. Volgan would never have approved of such a duel so Dante
went to meet his challenger at the ruins of an ancient warrior temple set
against the sea. As Dante crossed over the crest of a hill before the temple
he was met with a toss of sand to the face. He rolled to the side as his
opponent’s sword drew a thin line of blood across his arm. He arose with his
rapier in his hand (a light and fast weapon capable of rending an opponents
forearms bloody and sore in a short time, or if the opportunity presented
itself as a great skewer). As his vision cleared he jumped back avoiding
another series of jabs and swings from the previous champion. He countered
attempting to buy himself some breathing room and his superior strength
through his opponent back a few yards. He used this moment to mockingly bow to
his opponent in the style of the tournaments and with a sardonic smile he
proceeded to steadily advance with a blur of attacks. Dante left his enemy
dazed and slack jawed with a fancy display of some of the most difficult
techniques he had ever learned. His opponent turned and fled running through
the ruins.

Dante shouted after him, “So I’ll take it you yield?”

Dante’s mock was responded to by laughter as the disgruntled swordsman popped
up over a broken column with a heavy crossbow in hand, “I’ll have my title
back next year you thief!”

His aim was true as the twang of the crossbow firing was followed by a cursed
grunt from Dante. The bolt had torn through his thigh. Dante made a mental
note not to stand out in the open and drop his guard while mocking his fleeing
adversaries. At this thought Dante was able to stumble into cover with a thin
curl at the end of his lip despite the shooting pain that originated in his
upper leg.

Dante offered a concession, “Okay, you can have your stinkin’ title, I’m sick
of this tournament crap anyway.”

His enemy retorted, “That’s not enough Thief, you won’t be telling anyone
about what happened here today.”

Once an opponent has crossed that line there is no turning back. A duel turns
into a death match and anything goes. Dante slipped out a long thin chain he
had tied around his waist several times. He leaned over and whipped the chain
out so fast that his nemesis didn’t have time to pull the trigger before his
face was slammed up hard against the column he was using for cover. Dante saw
the crossbow being leveled in his direction as he leaned back against the rock
he was next to. He heard the shot fired and saw the bolt land harmlessly in
the rock in front of him. With a tug he brought his nemesis off the column and
hurtling down to the cracked stone of the temple floor. Dante stumbled out
from behind cover and closed with his would be murderer.

As Dante reached out and grabbed his enemy’s head and offered a bit of
pointless wisdom that victorious warriors often give to their fallen victims,
“The tournament was over a long time ago.”

With that he snapped the neck of his enemy and stumbled home after letting the
tide drag the body out to sea, no need to leave a mess behind. It would be a
sacrilege to let this man rot on an old temple of warriors.

##  Legends in Hell

Acheron, Home sweet home

His mean streak started long before his death. After a moment of sharp pain,
Dante awoke to find himself chained down. Several other “prisoners” lay in
similar positions about him. He realized that they lay in a pentagram shape
outlined by a blackened residue. After straining for some time he found the
Hell forged steel to be too difficult for him to break, but not too difficult
to bend. Some time later (time was difficult to judge here) with no food or
drink several hobbling demonoids the size of large children began torturing
the people lying chained about Dante. The demonoids were carrying branding
irons and as they burned their hellish marking on the backs of the chained
victims, eerie echoes of shrilled screams filled the air. As one of the
demonoids approached Dante turned his head slightly upward and spit, catching
the little devil in the eye. It cried out and jammed the branding iron into
Dante's shoulder blade. The burning sensation continued throughout Dante's
stay in Acheron, a year short of a millenium.

Although hungry and thirsty Dante didn't seem to require sustenance to “live”
here. He lay on his stomach for what he guessed were several weeks before the
Drivers arrived. Dante looked about and picked out the most rugged of the
individuals that were also chained up, a dark skinned man with one eye carved
hollow.

Dante barked at the man, “Tell me man, what is this place, who has made us
prisoners?”

With a thick accent the man snarled back, “Don't cha know whitey, yer in hell
now! ”

The dark skinned man trailed off into laughter that ended with coughing and
spasms. Was it possible that he was dead? He still felt very much alive.
Perhaps someone pulled off one hell of a trick and locked him up in this
dimension/place. That was the only reasonable solution Dante could come up
with. As Dante thought about who could possible have pulled this off the list
grew and grew. He'd murdered many legendary heroes and even demigods, and
although some had been on even footing, they'd look more like slaughters to
anyone watching. Dante's recently acquired cruel nature was nurtured in
battle. For Dante, war's solitude was a welcome relief from the constant
background noise in his mind. The momentary coolness that settled in right
before a fight was ecstasy and relief. Ever since Dante's service in Lord
Brandoch's army he had felt this nagging feeling growing stronger by the day.
He couldn't pinpoint when it started but its effect on Dante's personality was
immeasurable.

Dante was able to bend the chains enough to get his hands out. But instead of
fleeing he decided to play along. That way he wouldn't have to track down the
son a bitch that sent him here. After silencing those that wouldn't stop
screaming around him (Dante just told them to shut up, and they listened - he
didn't kill anyone … yet), he took in his surroundings. Endless tracks of
rusted dirt and rock. A sky full of rushing clouds rolled past him. Bones
sprinkled the ground, but sparingly as if someone perished only every twenty
feet or so. He heard the hellish screams first, then the pounding of hooves.

A dust cloud kicked up as the figures closed. He guessed there were six riders
and a coach, and he guessed right. As the great dark horses approached
belching fire from their nostrils, the people about Dante began screaming
again. After several cracks from a fiery whip held by one of the riders the
screams were silenced. Dante stood now with his hands obviously free of his
bonds. He beckoned the riders of the nightmares forth. The dark robed figures
nodded in his direction and began to close. He ducked under the lash from the
first fiery whip using the Nightmares head as a shield he snatched up and
pulled down the rider (who was incredibly light). The others closed and
although Dante ducked and rolled to the side one of the fiery lashes burned
across his shin. The pain was extraordinary for such a minor wound and Dante
landed from his tumble uneasily on his right leg.

Sickening gargled screams came from the robed figures as two of them
dismounted to join their fallen brother, while Dante hopped on the coach from
the rear and came up behind the driver. The driver turned but was far too
slow. Dante had grabbed his neck and twisted, with a slight crunch the head
fell to the side. The coachmen pulled back his hood to reveal a fleshless face
as he failed to correct his bent neck. Dante kicked the coachmen in the chest,
punched him twice more in the temple shattering the driver's midsection and
skull. With hellish screams a tiny tornado formed about the corpse and
swallowed the driver. Dante grabbed the coachmen's whip and beat the
Nightmare's into action. The three riders who had dismounted had just managed
to grab onto to the back of the stage as it raced into action. Dante plowed
right over many of the chained victims where they lay and silenced their
screams forever. His eyes flared for an instant to dark red instead of their
normal green color. Something was definitely happening to Dante, he just
wasn't aware of it yet.

The first rider crept up to the top just in time to catch Dante's boot in his
face as his skull shattered and his body remained clinging on the coach. Dante
had secured the reins and now the other riders were attempting to close with
him. The second driver slipped up the side of the black boned coach and
whipped at Dante hopping to catch him off guard. Dante leapt into the air and
flipped backwards, he flowed right into a sweep kick and landed with his
elbows forward crushing the back and pelvis of the driver. Another scream
followed by a great demonic hand grasping out of a manhole sized portal
reached up and grabbed the corpse. The last driver pulled itself up to the top
of the coach. It didn't see it's brethren riding alongside getting ready to
whip the escaped slave, but Dante did. He jumped toward the side of the coach
that the driver stood on as the driver turned to claw Dante it met the fiery
whip of the rider and burst into flames. Dante had swung over the side of the
coach and whipped through the open window. The inside of the racing coach was
dank and bloody. Tiny areas where Dante imagined people would ball their knees
into their chests to fit were separated by small spikes. The rustling carriage
would surely have caused Dante to impale himself had he been bunched up
alongside twelve more people in this small compartment. He saw the riders
break off and felt a downward slant of the cart. He climbed back on to the
coach to see a vast pit that surrounded the plateau he was now plummeting off
of. Too late to steer away Dante ran back and jumped off the rear of the bone
coach. The nightmares were moving so fast that when he landed he continued
skidding towards the edge. It just know hit him what he saw when he looked
down off the plateau. Thousands of people working with thousands of hellish
demons forcing them to continue. He could see their tortured faces in his mind
and it brought him pleasure, he finally had gone crazy. He stopped resisting
and slid off of the side the plateau and began falling. He estimated he would
have a few seconds before he impacted. While tumbling in the air, he
controlled himself so he could see the ground racing towards him, one last
thought brought a grin to Dante’s tortured face. Maybe he could land on a
couple of those poor bastards.

Claws ripped into his side as a great winged beast slowed his decent and
finally landed on top of Dante. His body flexed and bent but did not snap. The
rider of the bird dismounted, dark sword and sword breaker held fast at his
sides. “Welcome to Acheron, I Azmodrachus, am the new owner of your worthless
hide. You've destroyed several of my slave drivers and a bunch of new slaves.
I'll make sure your stay is extremely unpleasant godless wretch. How pathetic,
even now you have no idea what has happened to you. I know its difficult for
you to speak with your life's breathe being squeezed from your body but focus
hard and listen. You are dead to your world forever, and what I find really
entertaining is your ignorance of the parasite. Come boy.”

Azmodrachus reached forth with his open palm extended towards Dante as a force
began wrenching at Dante's body. He convulsed and shivered as his blood
vessels swelled throughout his neck and head. With a sickening rip a dark form
with many small talons appeared at Dante's mouth. Barely conscious, and broken
in several places Dante bit down as hard as he could. Several teeth popped out
as he chomped through the body of the parasite. A hissing squeal filled the
air and Azmodrachus cursed.

Dante felt his mind clear, and remembered all those he had slain. He wretched
and wretched but nothing but bile flowed forth from his empty stomach.
Azmodrachus' mood turned once again lighter as he motioned to several drivers
in the area and they dragged Dante away, to the Chamber of Hollows with
parting words followed by a cackle from Azmodrachus, “Let’s introduce our new
guest to an old friend of mine, Pain.”

After nine long centuries of torture and slavery the revolt had begun. Dante
had made his move during a civil war which had broke out between two of the
hellish lords. Azmodrachus was waging war on the Fens, a marshlike hellish
maze filled some barbaric creatures that followed a tribal culture. These
Torllens resembled trolls in size and appearance but were actually made up of
hundreds of smaller insect organisms banded together under a layer of flesh.
Their leader Bratock had ravaged several of the working camps developed by
Azmodrachus for mining the precious blood stone (a rare and mystical ore used
for ritualistic magic and powering arcane machines - it was the basis of trade
in these hells). Bratock had escaped with a steadily growing amount of blood
stones while taking only minimal losses to the undying drivers. During one
such raid, Dante strangled a driver with the bone keys that were required to
remove his particularly heavy manacles. He used the manacles as a weapon,
perhaps attempting to wreak vengeance with an appropriate tool of his hatred
for the demons. After running past a small group of drivers and decimating
them with a flurry of swings and smashes, Dante made his way to a large group
of slaves which he had made friends of in his long years of suffering.

The Gasques were seamen lead by Ishmael Reaver and once freed they followed
Dante until he had fully mastered his growing pyromantic powers (some years
later under the tutelage of Vonberg, a sorcerer who entered hell willingly).
The Gasques made their way for the steps, the only way out of the working pit
while Dante went deeper into the catacombs in order to “say goodbye” to an old
friend. On his way down Dante freed more of the slaves of Acheron but in one
silent stone hallway he met resistance. Its name was Captain Barrakus one of
Azmodrachus' elite warriors. The battle was well fought by the huge and
impressive creature, but in the end Dante's superior skill and speed bested
its brute strength.

Dante is now a veteran Legend. His Legendary abilities are Attribute
Enhancement: Agility:10 (108xp) & Strength:10 (108xp), besides his 3 starting
sub-powers Warlord, Chef, Ninja he now has gained 6 additional sub-powers
(from items of power, and special training): Fujisawa, Sharpened Senses,
Grit:6 (40xp), Thick Skinned, Air & Fire Magic:10 (54xp each). This gives him
a total set of attributes of STR:19, AGI:20, DUR:10, THT:6, WIL:10 (17xp),
PRE:8, skills Melee:10(18 Lethal Targeting,Reflexive Deflection,Counterattack)
(34xp), Missile:10 (14 Quickdraw,Gun Kata)(54xp), Acrobatica:10 (14 Anime
Leap,Arboreal Movement)(34xp), Climbing:8(10 Spiderclimb)(35xp), Stealth:6(10
Ambush)(21xp), Alertness:8(10 Dangersense)(35xp). Total xp:554, ~40-50 games
worth

After pulling the banner pole from the creatures chest and whipping it down on
its black steel scaly hide Dante continued on through the catacombs. A pair of
greatly detailed double doors banded with iron stood before him. The crest of
a snake intertwined with a bloody sword detailed the center of each door.
Dante bashed into the door several times. He was finally able to pry the doors
open through a small gap he had created, cursing the whole while. Azmodrachus
took this time to prepare. He brought up a suit of magical thrull demon armor.
The creature soul purpose was to protect the summoner. It appeared as set of
interlocking chitonous plates oozing foul juices and constantly whispering for
sustenance. It covered Azmodrachus' huge horned head with a black semi-
transparent covering and hard plates over his large pointed ears. The Lord of
this section of Acheron stood seven and half feet tall when hunched over, and
when he arose he gained another four feet of height. He held Sangre the blood
sword in his right hand, and Tearshal the sword breaker in his left. Upon the
far wall of the darkened chamber lay pinned a rotting carcass of an elf with
Illyrmion (a powerful magic Kusari Gama) stuck into its torn open midsection.
A terrified and painful scream was etched in the face of the dead elf, its
eyes wide with shock and horror.

“You interrupted my meal Mr. Dante, shall we return you to the Chamber of
Hollows?”, Azmodrachus clearly enunciated his words through thick fangs
dripping with saliva as the thrull echoed the words in a whispered rasp.

Dante responded, “I no longer will bow to you. Although you have taught me
much Azmodrachus, my time here grows short, as do your breathes.”

“Voile Dante!”, screamed the darklord Azmodrachus. Dante immediately fell to
his knees with curse, but it was much better this time. Now that he had
managed to burn off the brand first put on him those many years ago, the
effect of Azmodrachus' word of pain was much more bearable, in fact Dante
believed he could stand and fight but for now he lay still.

“Impudent whelp, you know my patience. Why do you bring such pain on yourself.
Not even a blind fool like yourself could still feel responsible for the
thousands of souls you reaped for me under the influence of the parasite. I
grow tired of your weakness Dante. Why do you bluff me, I've never known you
bluff…”, Azmodrachus was interrupted as he was closing with Dante by a banner
shaft slammed through his throat. A blow that would have instantly killed him
was diverted to the side by the incredible hard chitonous plates about his
neck from the thrull parasite demon armor.

With a flash Dante had left a kneeling position and struck at Azmodrachus
unconvinced that a single blow could destroy such a being and flipped onto the
main table where he was able to pull Illyrmion out of the elf's corpse. He
began spinning the chain about his head while pointing the bladed handle
towards Azmodrachus. Azmodrachus spit blood and maggots as he pulled the pole
from his thick throat. A flood of darkness began spilling over onto the armor,
which had finally been satiated.

Azmodrachus gurgled a question, “The mark, my mark…how?”

Dante answered by whipping the bladed handle at Azmodrachus' left arm.
Azmodrachus avoided loosing his clawed fist but the swordbreaker Tearshal was
whipped skillfully into Dante's clutches as he closed with Azmodrachus. Dante
know dodged as Azmodrachus slammed Sangre forward with both hands chopping
through the black stone table and into the floor. Dante whipped the chain
about the thrull and stabbed deep into the leg of Azmodrachus. Azmodrachus
dropped the sword and grabbed Dante in both hands. He began wrenching Dante's
body asunder. Dante focused and with a flash of light was on fire. Azmodrachus
laughed at the flames as he was immune to their effects. The darklord pulled
Dante closer in a bear hug and began squeezing. Dante stood no chance against
the over powering force of Azmodrachus but he had wanted to get this close. He
had slipped out a shard of the blood stone from behind his back while the
flames washed over him, distracting the darklord from his maneuver. Dante used
his left hand to grab the back of the darklord's head and spit “blood” onto
the thrull visor, he then struck that same point with the shard. The
concentrated plasma appearing as spittle melted a whole in thrull who couldn't
withstand such temperatures, the stone bit deeply into Azmodrachus' skull. The
darklord's eyes went blank as its bodied careened on top of Dante. Dante was
able to wriggle free before suffocating under the mass of the fallen lord.



Logged in as: Mark J. Essel

book_-_legends.txt · Last modified: 2008/06/17 06:12 (external edit)



     

